http://tdps.berkeley.edu/programs-courses/ /n





In the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies at UC Berkeley (TDPS), we understand performance to be a mode of critical inquiry, a means of a creative expression, and a vehicle for public engagement. Located in School of the Arts and Humanities within the College of Letters and Science at one of the world’s great universities, the TDPS faculty, students, and staff pursue a wide spectrum of research and production activities.The TDPS faculty is nationally and internationally known both for its scholarly research and for its artistic work in design, directing, choreography, acting, and experimental performance. Our curriculum ranges from the classics to the contemporary; it cuts across theatrical, dance, and visual art forms; it spans all corners of the globe, using the site of performance to deepen UC Berkeley’s critical education in the humanities.TDPS offers a major and a minor in “Theater and Performance Studies” and “Dance and Performance Studies” as well as a “Ph.D. in Performance Studies.” Each year, the Department presents between four and six productions in our Main Stage Season, as well as a Workshop Season of smaller productions. Throughout the year, we also sponsor a variety of symposia, lectures, and master classes, featuring visiting luminaries in the fields of theater, dance, film, and performance studies.Undergraduate Program
Graduate Program
Courses15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.edu15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduAdvanced Study Opportunities (Capstones) are intended to be the culmination of your undergraduate education in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. A Capstone Course may allow you to attain an extraordinarily high degree of skill in your area of focus, or to complete a substantial project on a theme or issue that you find deeply significant. By completing a Capstone Course in your final years at TDPS and UCB, you will bring together your undergraduate experience with a moment of synthesis and celebration – a marking moment. *Please note that most Capstone Courses have pre-requisites and application procedures, as described below.  Students take Capstone Courses in order to plan and carry out a specific research project; synthesize their diverse educational interests; achieve a certain level of mastery in their area of focus in theater, dance, or performance studies; or add a significant accomplishment to their résumés so that they are well prepared to enter the professional world after graduation from UC Berkeley. Some Capstone Courses are focused on reading, critical thinking, and academic writing; others emphasize performing or creating new works for the stage; still others allow students to teach, or travel, or intern with professionals in the working world. Students choose the Capstone Course that best suits their academic and artistic interests, and will give them the experience that they need to transition successfully from Berkeley into the world of graduate study or professional work.Do you need help discerning which Capstone Courses or Opportunities are your next step?
Contact: Michael Mansfield, Undergraduate Academic Advisor
15B Dwinelle Hall // Office Hours: 1-4, M-F
510-643-4050 // tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.eduBuilding upon Students’ R1A and R1B writing courses and other TDPS coursework the Undergraduate Research Seminar (URS) is designed to provide students at all levels with the knowledge and tools they need to conduct advanced research for honors theses, independent study research papers, essays, and synthesis papers.While the emphasis on traditional scholarly research, practice-as-research is also covered in this course.With each student working with a familiar topic that they feel passionate about, we will practice skills such as crafting research questions, finding sources, engaging and responding critically to sources, identifying key concepts and conducting interviews. We will also draft a thesis statement and a paper outline based on the thesis statement. Final projects include the production of an annotated bibliography that includes a minimum of five sources and a research proposal in both written form and as a lively Pecha Kucha-like slideshow. Throughout the semester we will also practice project management including developing an idea of reasonable scale, sticking to research timelines and interacting with faculty advisors. Class format includes group instruction, peer review and one-on- one student advising. Class time will also be allotted to working on assignments.While the URS is open to all students, it is required for TDPS students conducting departmentally–approved Honors Projects. Students are strongly encouraged to complete Theater 166 before proposing an Honors Project and to use the written research proposal completed in this class for the honors application process. TDPS students who must take the URS and the first semester of their “Written-Only” Honors Project concurrently have the option of dovetailing their final assignments for H195A and 166. The student may use their annotated bibliography in 166 as the foundation for the annotated bibliography required at the end of the first semester of their Honors Project 195A. They can also expand their thesis proposal in 166 into the ten-page proposal required in H195A to progress to the second semester of the Honors Project.TDPS students who must take the URS and are the first semester of their “Honors Essay and Production” Honors Project concurrently have the option of substituting the introductory section of their 25-40 page Honors Project Essay for H195A for the written research proposal in 166. They may also use their second semester H195B Production Project as their topic for the end-of- the-semester slide show in 166.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:Class meets once a week.Application Submission:Enrollment is limited. To be considered for the course, send an email to Jenefer Johnson at jenefer@berkeley.edu indicating your name, year, major/minor, phone number, and email address. If you have already been approved to do an Honors Thesis, please include a copy of your proposal. If you intend to apply for an honors project or independent study in the future, please indicate the topic(s) you are interested in exploring.Theater 169 involves participation in advanced technical theater practice associated with departmental theater and dance productions. This could include lead, head, or coordinator positions with technical run crew for live performance in one of the following areas: lighting, sound, video, properties, costumes, make-up, scenery, deck, or rail. This could also include advanced application of workshop activities (fabrication, treatment, and installation) in one or more of the following areas: costume, hair, make-up, scenery, properties, lighting, video, and sound for live performance.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:Mentoring opportunity with one of the design faculty and/or staff on your project.Application Submission:Email Wil Leggett, the Production Manager, at willeggett@berkeley.edu to discuss possible course assignments. Plan one semester ahead: you may contact the Production Manager as early as the first week of the semester to discuss enrollment for the following semester.For the advanced actor preparing for graduate school auditions.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:Participants work in individual coaching sessions with the instructor.Application Submission:Students are admitted by interview and with the recommendation of the acting faculty. If you are interested in interviewing, watch for a sign-up sheet on the Callboard in early September. If you have questions about the course, contact Lura Dolas at lura@berkeley.edu.Advanced students of lighting design are provided experience, structure, and support in the practical application of design to the stage in departmental productions.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:Mentoring opportunity with the lighting design faculty on campus or off campus.Application Submission:Contact Jack Carpenter at jackcal39@berkeley.edu for information about participation and course control numbers. Advanced students who have taken TDPS scenic design and costume design classes are offered opportunities to participate in practical scenographic explorations by taking responsibility for designing, or assistant-designing department shows. This includes the designing of costumes, scenery, projections and special properties. The level of experience and commitment required varies so each project is tailored to the needs and abilities of each student and their particular production context.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:Mentoring opportunity with the set design or costume design faculty on campus or off campus.Application Submission:Contact the instructor, Annie Smart, at anniesmart@berkeley.edu well in advance for information about participation and for CCN and other protocols.This course gives you credit for participating in Berkeley Dance Project (an audition is required to be cast in BDP). This course relates choreography to theatrical presentation. Laboratory hours are spent in attendance at rehearsal, coaching sessions, and the performance of Berkeley Dance Project. Faculty and guest artists cast and choreograph these dance works.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:Pieces presented in Berkeley Dance Project are choreographed by a faculty member or professional guest artist.Application Submission:Auditions are held towards the end of each fall semester. Watch for information and sign up for a time on the TDPS Callboard. This course gives you credit for participating in TDPS Playhouse and/or Studio productions (auditions required to be cast). This course relates dramatic texts or choreography to theatrical presentation. The lectures are based on the analysis of the work being presented. Laboratory hours are spent in attendance at rehearsal, coaching sessions, and the performance of the play or concert. Playhouse and Studio Productions are directed by faculty, guest artists, or advanced students.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:Playhouse and Studio Productions are directed by faculty, guest artists, or advanced students.Application Submission:Auditions for fall shows are held the first two weeks of classes; auditions for spring shows are held towards the end of each fall semester and in the first week of the spring semester. Watch for information and sign up for a time on the TDPS Callboard.The H195 Honors Project is the centerpiece and culmination of an outstanding career in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies. Projects are approved each year based on available resources and funds, but more importantly, projects are approved in recognition of excellent work within the major and strong, engaging proposals that seek to answer a research question or experiment. Projects can be accomplished as 1) Written Thesis-Only or 2) Written Honors Essay and Production. Honors Projects are restricted to Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies majors only. The H195A/B Written Honors Project may be undertaken in either a Spring/Fall or Fall/Spring cycle. The H195A/B Essay-Production Honors Project is only available in the Fall/Spring cycle. 1. Written Thesis-OnlyThe first semester (Theater 166 + H195A, total of 4 units) is an intensive critical study of some aspect of theater, dance, or performance studies. Students enroll in Theater 166: Undergraduate Research Seminar (2 units) alongside Theater H195A: Honors Thesis or Project (2 units). The semester culminates in drafting a detailed thesis proposal – a ten-page synopsis of the thesis, followed by an annotated bibliography of studies consulted. The Faculty Supervisor must approve the work completed, and approve the student to complete the thesis in the second semester.The second semester (H195B, 4 units) is spent writing the thesis based on the previous semester’s research. Midway through the second semester, the student will submit a draft of 40-60 pages to their committee (Faculty Supervisor and an additional Senate faculty member selected by the student), who will read and comment on the draft. This final draft will be the document on which the student receives a final grade for the thesis.2. Written Honors Essay And ProductionThe first semester (Theater 166 + H195A, total of 4 units) is an intensive critical study of some aspect of theater, dance, or performance studies. This semester culminates in writing a 25 – 40 page critical, historical, and/or theoretical Honors Essay. The essay considers a significant problem, and is evaluated as a free-standing project – that is, the Honors Essay will be treated as a critical text in its own terms, not only as preparation for the second-semester production.The second semester (H195B, 4 units) is a performance/production project that engages with the Honors Essay, that culminates in directing a play, choreographing a dance piece, designing a production, writing a play, staging a costume show, etc.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision: Students select a Faculty Supervisor to mentor their work throughout the year. If you are pursuing an Honors Essay and Production and wish to have two supervisors during the year, one for the research semester and one for the production semester, you may choose two different faculty members. The actual course content and format of the H195 sequence depend upon the student and the Faculty Supervisor(s). In the past, Honors Projects have encompassed directorial, choreography, design, performance, research, and playwriting projects.Students are encouraged to start discussing projects (both the possibilities and the limitations of what you envision) with potential Faculty Supervisors as early as possible, normally in September or October. Students are required to submit and discuss a rough draft of their proposal with a Faculty Supervisor at least two weeks before the deadline for proposals. Faculty Supervisors will not sign proposals that have not been reviewed with them before the deadline. Faculty Supervisors will then be responsible for presenting the proposal and answering questions from the H195/196 Committee and, if the project is approved, for monitoring the student’s progress on a regular basis throughout the course. If you have 2 Supervisors for your H195, both should be involved in the proposal process. Coordinate with both of them early in the process.Application Submission:The 196 Project is a production project for the advanced directing or choreography or performance art student within the scope of a single semester. The 196 Project is not restricted to Theater and Performance Studies or Dance and Performance Studies Majors. Although undergraduate projects are given priority, graduate students may also apply for consideration. This four-unit, letter-graded course is possible in either the Fall or Spring Semester.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision: Students are encouraged to start discussing projects (both the possibilities and the limitations of what you envision) with potential Faculty Supervisors as early as possible, normally in September or October. Students are required to submit and discuss a rough draft of their proposal with a Faculty Supervisor at least two weeks before the deadline for proposals. Faculty Supervisors will not sign proposals that have not been reviewed with them before the deadline. Faculty Supervisors will then be responsible for presenting the proposal and answering questions from the H195/196 Committee and, if the project is approved, for monitoring the student’s progress on a regular basis throughout the course. If you have 2 Supervisors for your H195, both should be involved in the proposal process. Coordinate with both of them early in the process.Application Submission:Submit production proposals in the spring for projects happening the following academic year:Draft of Proposal due to Faculty Supervisor: By 4pm on the second Friday of February (Submit by February 10, 2017)
Final Proposal due to Michael Mansfield: By 4pm on the Fourth Friday of February (Submit by February 24, 2017)197 Field Study is an off-campus, supervised internship experience in theatrical production fields such as design and construction, stage management, publicity, and/or arts management, marketing, dramaturgy, and arts business fields, intended to prepare students for careers in the theater and dance professional worlds.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:The intention of Theater 197 is to acquire experience and learning in the theater profession that is unavailable to you here at UCB in the same way. It is important that the internship not just be free labor, but rather, a fulfilling professional and educational experience. Since the Department gives credit for this experience, it is essential that both the On-Site Instructor and the UCB Faculty Supervisor understand the nature of the internship and take responsibility for its educational purpose. The more specific all three of you can be about the scope and the nature of the internship in advance, the more likely the internship will be successful. Lack of preparation often creates misunderstandings later, so the more attention each brings to this process in advance, the stronger the internship. We hope a secondary advantage of the internship will be the professional colleagues created. Coordinating this three-way partnership requires starting early.Application Submission:Third Friday of November for Spring Semester (For Spring 2017, submit by November 18, 2016)Third Friday of April for Fall Semester. (For Fall 2017, submit by April 21, 2017)DeCal (Democratic Education at CAL) courses are an important adjunct curriculum component to the TDPS departmental educational structure and across campus. Since 1965, students have shared their teaching skills and expertise in hundreds of courses offered each semester at UCB that otherwise would not be able to be taught. DeCal courses appear in the TDPS Departmental course listing, and for that semester, you are one of the course facilitators offering a class in our department under the mentorship of a supervising faculty member. The hope is that by teaching students will learn more about the educational profession and the ability to do research through teaching. Perhaps teaching will emerge as one of the interests you will be able to take with you into the next stage of your life and professional work. Teaching at UCB is not only a privilege, but also an amazing opportunity to develop as an artist and academic. The following procedures will maintain uniformity in the expectations and responsibilities assumed in offering these courses. It is up to the applicant and their faculty supervisor to turn in a complete application. All DeCal courses are taught as a Theater 98 course. The DeCal facilitator gets one unit of Theater 198 for their work as facilitator.Prerequisites/Rules:Faculty Supervision:The sponsoring faculty member is the instructor of record. The paperwork to apply for this course and opportunity is substantial, and planning on the part of both student coordinator(s) and faculty is necessary. Start early. Student facilitator(s) and faculty should carefully read over the information on the DeCal website: http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~decal/Application Submission: Second Friday of October for Spring Semester (For Spring 2017, submit by October 14, 2016)Second Friday of March for Fall Semester (For Fall 2017, submit by March 10, 2017)Independent Study 199 is the opportunity for student(s) to set up a research/learning environment and mentor relationship with one faculty member to accomplish a learning objective of the student, pursuing a question in a research.Faculty Supervision:This is a course based on the development of the mentor relationship between student and faculty member. Start early in coordinating this learning opportunity.Prerequisites/Rules:Proposal Submission:Third Friday of November for Spring Semester (For Spring 2017, submit by November 18, 2016)Third Friday of April for Fall Semester (For Fall 2017, submit by April 21, 2017)Productions in TDPS can take multiple forms, each being afforded specific resources of time and technical support. Below are explanations of four department rubrics in order of increasing time commitment for participants.As a step above class showings, students may apply for Workshops which are treated as staged readings/works/performances. Directors/Choreographers/Artists may audition students for participation and organized rehearsal time will be granted for up to 20 hours per week to be scheduled Monday – Friday.          Possible venues for Workshops include Z170, Room 7 and Durham Studio Theater determined by application criteria and schedule availability.Technical/production support are as follows:Technical/Production Support As Follows:Classes in acting, directing, playwriting and choreography may culminate in ‘showcase’ performances at the end of a semester. These are held in one of our performance or studio venues and may have basic lighting support in the form of a single cue or preset cues from an existing light plot. Students may solicit participation from friends and classmates in the performing of these works, though credit is not given to additional participants and rehearsal time is to be organized by the students independently. These showcase performances are further meant to have minimal technical elements such as costumes, props, etc. Anything desired and approved by the course instructor must be provided by the students, except in rare cases. Showcases are typically one or two performances.The opportunity to study abroad creates an immersive university experience that integrates education and culture, preparing you for global citizenship in a vital way. All students at UCB are encouraged to consider doing some part of their education in this way. The Irish Theater Program allows you to study the theatrical literature of another country in that country while simultaneously training as an actor. For those students who do this course as Junior or Senior, it often becomes a great moment of synthesis for all of your Theater and Performance Studies work. Watch for more details for this program in Summer 2018.Two departmental student leadership groups are part of the TDPS administrative team.Peer Advisors work as resources to the Departmental Advising Team to welcome and support incoming students, answer questions and translate for visiting guests, families, and prospective students, and share information with current TDPS students as major social gatherings. These students work with Undergraduate Student Advisor Michael Mansfield. If you are interested, speak with Michael Mansfield in the Spring to apply.Student Liaisons work to build a series of social functions during the year, attend meetings and serve on various departmental committees, and serve as a communication system between all parts of the TDPS community. These students work with the Vice Chair. A call for applications is announced in Spring semester each year.You may wish to work with a faculty member on their research projects. Often faculty members need assistance finding primary and secondary materials, collecting and analyzing data, or writing technical documents. As a faculty research assistant, you may experience the value of deep study and exploration into a topic that may be related to your own interests. Beginning a conversation, as early as possible, with the faculty member is the best way to initiate this process. Check out the campus website to discern next application submission opportunity. Undergraduate Research Assistance Program (URAP) pairs students with different faculty and new research projects each semester. Academic credit is available. http://urap/berkeley.eduUCB STUDY ABROAD COURSESThe Department encourages study abroad and hopes students take the opportunity to enrich their studies with this learning and cultural experience, whether on land or sea. While not always precisely a capstone course in our department, we highly recommend taking a summer, a semester, or a year abroad as part of your time here in our department. Check out the EAP website (Education Abroad Program – http://studyabroad.berkeley.edu) for the next application submission opportunity or check with the department to see when the next departmental course abroad will be offered. If students embark on a study abroad program during their junior or senior years, they can use that experience as a way to synthesize and deepen their explorations in their focus areas. RESEARCH SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, AND INTERNSHIPSSummer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF), Haas Scholars Program, Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowships, McNair Scholars Program, and the Judith Lee Stronach Baccalaureate Prize are just some of the many ways to pursue your own in-depth research and studies initiative with funding. These opportunities require an application process. See the UC Berkeley research website http://research.berkeley.edu and follow up leads for each group to receive detailed information on the next available application deadline. UC BERKELEY WASHINGTON CENTER SEMESTER/CAL IN THE CAPITAL SUMMER INTERNSHIPSStudents live and study in Washington, DC for a semester or Sacramento, CA for a summer, participating in an internship in public service/non-profit centers. This could be particular interest to students focusing on arts policy or arts administration, or those hoping to combine theater with legal or governmental careers. Check the UC Berkeley website for more information.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduAll students are invited to audition for TDPS acting and dance courses.  If a disability-related accommodation is needed for a class audition, please contact the undergraduate academic advisor, Michael Mansfield <tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.edu> at least one week prior to the start of the semester. Please note: some audition spaces are not readily accessible for those with mobility impairments. With advance notice, we are happy to make arrangements for an alternate venue.  Those in DSP, please contact your DSP specialist well in advance of the audition so there is time for the accommodation process and notify the department to make arrangements. Please ask DSP to also send disability accommodation notices for auditions to Michael Mansfield at least one week prior to the start of the semester.• Not all classes are offered every semester.  Please check the Schedule of Classes.All dance students are encouraged to enroll through Tele-BEARS and all must attend the first day of class for the required placement audition.  All auditions will be held during the regular class time in Bancroft Studio, located at 2401 Bancroft Way, at the corner with Dana. If you don’t know which level is appropriate, attend all technique classes on the first day to determine which is the best match.  At the end of the first class, the instructor will tell you if you have been admitted to that level.  If you haven’t already done so, you must enroll in that level through Tele-BEARS.  Anyone not admitted must drop the course through Tele-BEARS.No special preparation is required for the audition.  Footless tights, leotards, or fitted gym clothes are suggested attire.Please note:  For Theater 40, priority will be given to our Majors and Minors and to first-year and second-year students.Please remember – Theater 147A and 147B are electives and do not fulfill the major requirement to be in a modern dance technique course each semester.All interested students must attend the first class to be interviewed by the instructor for admission into the course.   Be prepared to talk about your interest in the course and any relevant experience.  The class list for 162 (Stage Directing) will be posted on the TDPS online callboard (tdps.berkeley.edu/callboard). The course control numbers for all three courses will be released once class lists have been determined.Acting students will NOT be able to enroll in 10, 109 (formerly Theater 11), 110A, 110B, or 111 through Tele-BEARS before the beginning of the semester.  Instead, starting August 15 (for Fall) and December 1 (for Spring) students will sign up via the TDPS online callboard (tdps.berkeley.edu/callboard) for auditions which will be held at the very beginning of the semester.   Theater 109 requires at least one semester of college-level acting training (or equivalent experience) and each subsequent course in the series requires an additional semester of college-level training or experience.  If you don’t know which acting level is appropriate, sign up for more than one audition.After the auditions, class lists will be posted on the TDPS online callboard. If you are accepted into the course, the instructor will give you a course control number on the first day that your class meets and you must then add the course via Tele-BEARS.  NO ONE will be considered for 10, 109, 110A, 110B or 111 without an audition.For the audition, please prepare a one-minute speech from a play, film script, or a selection of prose.  Memorization of the piece is strongly encouraged for Theater 10 and is required for all other classes.
For Theater 10 and 109 Auditions:How long should my monologue be? One minute maximum. Be sure to time your piece – if you go over during the audition, you will be asked to stop.Does it need to be memorized?You have a much better chance of getting into a Theater 10 class if you memorize the selection.  Memorization is required for 109.Any tips for selecting my monologue?•  Look for a speech from a play.  Passages from other forms of literature, including poems, are not as strong.
It is probably best for beginners to stick to contemporary pieces – written, say after 1940.
•  Stay away from accents.
•  Choose something you can relate to, probably in your general age range.What are your tips for performing the monologue?•  Remember to breathe.
•  Speak loudly and clearly enough for us to hear you.
•  Imagine whomever you are speaking to is standing or sitting in front of you and speak to that imaginary person.Any other ideas for how I can increase my chances of admittance into the class?•  Write your email address and name on the audition form legibly.
•  You have a much better chance of getting into a class if you can indicate on the forms that you are available for more than one section.How early should I arrive to my audition appointment?If possible, please come 10 minutes before your appointed time in case we are running early. It will also give you a moment to fill out the audition form where we ask about your previous training (if any), previous experience (if any), major/minor status, number of semesters of college-level acting training, and preferences for which sections of your level of acting you are available for. You are welcome to bring a resume or cv of your previous experience and training if you have one.If I have not yet taken Theater 10, can I audition for Theater 109 instead?If you are trying to skip 10 and go into 109, you should have at least one semester of college-level acting training or equivalent acting experience. Your monologue will have to reveal that training and experience to help you gain access to the class. It is recommended that you do the entire acting sequence in order once you arrive at UCB as a freshman.For Theater 110A/B and 111 Auditions:When is each class taught?110A is taught in fall. 110B is taught in spring.What should I prepare for my 110A audition?If you have taken 10 or 109, you may use your contemporary monologues from those classes. You need not use heightened language or classical monologues.If you are trying to skip 10 or 109 and go into 110A in the fall, you should have at least two semesters of college-level acting training or equivalent acting experience. Your monologue will have to reveal that training and experience to help you gain access to the class.What about requirements for 110B auditions?If you are trying to skip 10 or 109 or 110A and go into 110B in the spring, you should have at least three semesters of college-level acting training and voice training or equivalent acting experience. Your monologue will have to reveal that training and experience to help you gain access to the class.What if I am trying to skip 110B and go into 111?If you are trying to skip 110B and go into 111, you should have a 60-90 second Shakespeare piece as well as your contemporary 60-second piece.What if I am a transfer student? Transfer students are encouraged to begin their training at the appropriate level based on their studies in Junior College. It is recommended that you do the entire acting sequence in order once you arrive at UCB as a Junior unless you have had two or more semesters of college-level acting training in your Junior College, or equivalent acting experience.General Questions:What is the ratio of people who audition and people who are admitted?It varies greatly from semester to semester. Often many more students audition than we have space for, so placing everyone is not assured.What if I don’t get in? Where do I go from there?Due to the large number of students who audition, it is not possible to get individual feedback from instructors holding the auditions. We strongly encourage you to try again the next semester.Don’t think of this as a wasted semester of training. Get involved in other TDPS classes that have a performance component. Audition for a TDPS Workshop or Mainstage production. Contact the film department for student film opportunities, or audition for an on-campus production sponsored by one of many student-run performance groups.If you would like to gain more experience off the UC Berkeley campus, organizations like Theater Bay Area offer audition preparation workshops, and many schools around the Bay Area offer theater classes one can sign up for. For an extensive list, please see the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.  15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduAll students are invited to audition for TDPS acting and dance courses.  If a disability-related accommodation is needed for a class audition, please contact the undergraduate academic advisor, Michael Mansfield <tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.edu> at least one week prior to the start of the semester. Please note: some audition spaces are not readily accessible for those with mobility impairments. With advance notice, we are happy to make arrangements for an alternate venue.  Those in DSP, please contact your DSP specialist well in advance of the audition so there is time for the accommodation process and notify the department to make arrangements. Please ask DSP to also send disability accommodation notices for auditions to Michael Mansfield at least one week prior to the start of the semester.• Not all classes are offered every semester.  Please check the Schedule of Classes.All dance students are encouraged to enroll through Tele-BEARS and all must attend the first day of class for the required placement audition.  All auditions will be held during the regular class time in Bancroft Studio, located at 2401 Bancroft Way, at the corner with Dana. If you don’t know which level is appropriate, attend all technique classes on the first day to determine which is the best match.  At the end of the first class, the instructor will tell you if you have been admitted to that level.  If you haven’t already done so, you must enroll in that level through Tele-BEARS.  Anyone not admitted must drop the course through Tele-BEARS.No special preparation is required for the audition.  Footless tights, leotards, or fitted gym clothes are suggested attire.Please note:  For Theater 40, priority will be given to our Majors and Minors and to first-year and second-year students.Please remember – Theater 147A and 147B are electives and do not fulfill the major requirement to be in a modern dance technique course each semester.All interested students must attend the first class to be interviewed by the instructor for admission into the course.   Be prepared to talk about your interest in the course and any relevant experience.  The class list for 162 (Stage Directing) will be posted on the TDPS online callboard (tdps.berkeley.edu/callboard). The course control numbers for all three courses will be released once class lists have been determined.Acting students will NOT be able to enroll in 10, 109 (formerly Theater 11), 110A, 110B, or 111 through Tele-BEARS before the beginning of the semester.  Instead, starting August 15 (for Fall) and December 1 (for Spring) students will sign up via the TDPS online callboard (tdps.berkeley.edu/callboard) for auditions which will be held at the very beginning of the semester.   Theater 109 requires at least one semester of college-level acting training (or equivalent experience) and each subsequent course in the series requires an additional semester of college-level training or experience.  If you don’t know which acting level is appropriate, sign up for more than one audition.After the auditions, class lists will be posted on the TDPS online callboard. If you are accepted into the course, the instructor will give you a course control number on the first day that your class meets and you must then add the course via Tele-BEARS.  NO ONE will be considered for 10, 109, 110A, 110B or 111 without an audition.For the audition, please prepare a one-minute speech from a play, film script, or a selection of prose.  Memorization of the piece is strongly encouraged for Theater 10 and is required for all other classes.
For Theater 10 and 109 Auditions:How long should my monologue be? One minute maximum. Be sure to time your piece – if you go over during the audition, you will be asked to stop.Does it need to be memorized?You have a much better chance of getting into a Theater 10 class if you memorize the selection.  Memorization is required for 109.Any tips for selecting my monologue?•  Look for a speech from a play.  Passages from other forms of literature, including poems, are not as strong.
It is probably best for beginners to stick to contemporary pieces – written, say after 1940.
•  Stay away from accents.
•  Choose something you can relate to, probably in your general age range.What are your tips for performing the monologue?•  Remember to breathe.
•  Speak loudly and clearly enough for us to hear you.
•  Imagine whomever you are speaking to is standing or sitting in front of you and speak to that imaginary person.Any other ideas for how I can increase my chances of admittance into the class?•  Write your email address and name on the audition form legibly.
•  You have a much better chance of getting into a class if you can indicate on the forms that you are available for more than one section.How early should I arrive to my audition appointment?If possible, please come 10 minutes before your appointed time in case we are running early. It will also give you a moment to fill out the audition form where we ask about your previous training (if any), previous experience (if any), major/minor status, number of semesters of college-level acting training, and preferences for which sections of your level of acting you are available for. You are welcome to bring a resume or cv of your previous experience and training if you have one.If I have not yet taken Theater 10, can I audition for Theater 109 instead?If you are trying to skip 10 and go into 109, you should have at least one semester of college-level acting training or equivalent acting experience. Your monologue will have to reveal that training and experience to help you gain access to the class. It is recommended that you do the entire acting sequence in order once you arrive at UCB as a freshman.For Theater 110A/B and 111 Auditions:When is each class taught?110A is taught in fall. 110B is taught in spring.What should I prepare for my 110A audition?If you have taken 10 or 109, you may use your contemporary monologues from those classes. You need not use heightened language or classical monologues.If you are trying to skip 10 or 109 and go into 110A in the fall, you should have at least two semesters of college-level acting training or equivalent acting experience. Your monologue will have to reveal that training and experience to help you gain access to the class.What about requirements for 110B auditions?If you are trying to skip 10 or 109 or 110A and go into 110B in the spring, you should have at least three semesters of college-level acting training and voice training or equivalent acting experience. Your monologue will have to reveal that training and experience to help you gain access to the class.What if I am trying to skip 110B and go into 111?If you are trying to skip 110B and go into 111, you should have a 60-90 second Shakespeare piece as well as your contemporary 60-second piece.What if I am a transfer student? Transfer students are encouraged to begin their training at the appropriate level based on their studies in Junior College. It is recommended that you do the entire acting sequence in order once you arrive at UCB as a Junior unless you have had two or more semesters of college-level acting training in your Junior College, or equivalent acting experience.General Questions:What is the ratio of people who audition and people who are admitted?It varies greatly from semester to semester. Often many more students audition than we have space for, so placing everyone is not assured.What if I don’t get in? Where do I go from there?Due to the large number of students who audition, it is not possible to get individual feedback from instructors holding the auditions. We strongly encourage you to try again the next semester.Don’t think of this as a wasted semester of training. Get involved in other TDPS classes that have a performance component. Audition for a TDPS Workshop or Mainstage production. Contact the film department for student film opportunities, or audition for an on-campus production sponsored by one of many student-run performance groups.If you would like to gain more experience off the UC Berkeley campus, organizations like Theater Bay Area offer audition preparation workshops, and many schools around the Bay Area offer theater classes one can sign up for. For an extensive list, please see the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.  15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduPlease plan ahead to complete requirements as not all TDPS courses are offered every semester  Many required courses (Theater 26 for example) are offered just once a year, in either Fall or Spring depending on faculty availability and departmenal needs.   It is crucial that students plan ahead and take required courses early on.Click here for TDPS Fall 2017 Class ScheduleClick here for TDPS Spring 2018 Class Schedule  15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduCourses required for our majors are offered at least once a year, in either Fall or Spring depending on faculty availability and departmental needs. Given that the exact timing of courses cannot be predicted, students should take required courses as early in their time at TDPS as possible. Exceptions to the requirements will not be made. Please plan ahead to complete requirements in time for graduations.NOTE: Fall 2017 offers 5 upper division performance studies courses (119, 121, 125, 126, 151A) representing all 4 areas of performance studies. There will be only 2 upper division Performance Studies courses offered in Spring 2018 – 125 and 126. Plan accordingly if you are hoping to graduate in Spring 2018.  
Please see below for Graduate Courses
See the Class Schedule for additional informationTDPS Courses Offered in FALL 2017Courses required for our majors are offered at least once a year, in either Fall or Spring depending on faculty availability and departmental needs. Given that the exact timing of courses cannot be predicted, students should take requirements as early in their time in TDPS as possible. Exceptions to the requirements will not be made.Theater R1A (section 1) -Exploring Performance in Everyday Life  
This course fulfills the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement, and its primary aim is to help students develop critical reading, analytical, and academic writing skills. Using Media Studies and Performance Studies frameworks, this course examines how media and technology interact with memory. Intertwined with our daily lives, media not only reflect our experiences, but also actively shape how we remember events and construct our identities. How do media and technology shape our memory? How do we use media to build archives? How are our bodies intertwined in this process? Students will learn key concepts for media theory from a wide range of disciplines, and put these concepts in conversation with contemporary media objects, including film, TV, theatre, and digital platforms. We will also situate readings within broader historical discourses on media to consider how media history is constructed.Prerequisite: UC Entry Level Writing Requirement or UC Analytical Writing Placement Exam.
 Instructor: Srijani Ghosh, 4 unitsTheater R1A (section 2) – Oil Culture
​This course fulfills the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement, and is designed to help students develop reading and composition skills at the university level. Throughout the course we will develop analytical skills by considering oil’s ubiquity in modern life. While oil is critical to the global economy and political relations between states, it is also profoundly cultural. This class is shaped by the knowledge that oil production has peaked, and that our characteristic mode of thinking about oil—that is, not thinking about it—will no longer suffice. Students will practice formulating a strong claim, selecting and incorporating evidence, and organizing an essay as we examine a range of novels, films, photographs, and performances in which petromodernity is described, such as in depictions of the Californian oil frontier in There Will be Blood and automobility in postwar conceptions of freedom. We will also examine the diverse forms of violence elicited by oil production by studying the protests against petro-imperialism at Standing Rock, and speculative futures of climate disaster.Prerequisite: UC Entry Level Writing Requirement or UC Analytical Writing Placement Exam.
GSI: Kimberly Richards, Instructor of Record: Angela Marino, 4 unitsTheater R1A (section 7) – Fatness and Popular Culture 
This course will look at the representation of fat bodies in popular culture to think critically about what messages our society sends us about fatness. We will analyze popular culture artifacts like television episodes, movies, films, songs, musicians and music videos, books, advertisements, and more and pair them with foundational theoretical readings in the nascent academic field of fat studies. We will be particularly interested in how the fat experience differs from body to body dependent upon race, gender, class, sexuality and sexual orientation and disability status.Prerequisite: UC Entry Level Writing Requirement or UC Analytical Writing Placement Exam.
GSI: Caleb Luna, Instructor of Record: Angela Marino, 4 unitsTheater R1A (section 9) – Queer Art and the Racialization of Sexuality
This course will explore the co-construction of race and sexuality through looking at contemporary queer art. Drawing on art history, visual studies, performance studies, and queer-of-color critique, we will examine how queer art practices are visualizing, historicizing, and challenging power, bodies, and desires. Central questions for consideration include: What are our conditions of seeing and been seen? How are our bodies and their gestures racialized, sexualized, and gendered? How can queer art, as theorist Renate Lorenz writes, be taken up in a way continues the denormalization it incites, the desire for being-other, being-elsewhere, and change? This course fulfills the first half of the Reading and Composition requirement, and is designed to help students develop reading and composition skills at the university level.Prerequisite: UC Entry Level Writing Requirement or UC Analytical Writing Placement Exam.
GSI: Jessica Dorance, Instructor of Record: Angela Marino, 4 unitsTheater R1B (section 1 & 2) – What a Body Can Do 
Researching and writing inside, hunched over a laptop, can be a lonely enterprise that also wreaks havoc on our bodies. In this course, we will spend one day per week “inside” the classroom and one day per week exploring a variety of “outsides”: campus quads and lawns, acting and dance classes, performance rehearsals, live performances, sporting events, and more. The course is designed for students to examine everyday and artistic performances as participant-observers in order to consider how we choreograph our humanity and explore the physical qualities of our contemporary moment. We will analyze movement as a broad category that plays a central role in how we “know” race, gender, sexuality, class, and disability. Taking our cue from the idea that “technique is knowledge that structures practice” (Spatz), we will explore the limitless question of what a body can do. Inside, we will discuss an eclectic assortment of theoretical texts from the fields of dance ethnography, performance studies, cultural studies, and philosophies of the body, as well as participate in classroom writing exercises that involve body-mind awareness practices derived from different somatic methods. As a research-focused R1B course, we will deploy the critical reading and analytical writing skills developed in R1A courses towards a final research project that will address the question of “what a body knows” in diverse historical contexts.Prerequisites: R1A or its equivalent. 
Instructor: Sima Belmar, 4 unitsTheater R1B (section 3) – The Politics and Performance of AIDS
“Memory – whether it be individual or collective – involves a dynamic dialectic between mourning what has passed and reviving what has been lost. The history of AIDS performance is located at just this juncture: between revival and disappearance.” – Acts of Intervention: Performance, Gay Culture, and AIDS, David RománTaking inspiration from Román’s concerns above in thinking through the tensions of memory, disappearance, and revival, this course will consider the ways in which the historicization of AIDS performance eludes us. We will track a historical trajectory of performance as it relates to the AIDS crisis in the United States in the 1980s and 1990s beginning with an overview of the tumultuous time period. In this vein we will think through the crisis and the concurrent culture wars which sought to diminish and silence artists’ voices through policy and smear campaigns. We will then move through canonical plays such as Tony Kushner’s Angels in America, to protest, experimental work, and dance such as Bill T. Jones’s Still/Here. Finally, we will end by examining the ways artists continue to respond to the crisis and its history through the re-staging of works and curatorial projects, as well as the way queer theorists, from Jack Halberstam to José Muñoz, theorize conceptions of queer history and time.This course meets the second half of the University’s reading and composition requirement; it is designed to hone students’ reading and writing skills as they relate to research. Students will work on drafting, rewriting, and peer editing in addition to participating in in-class workshops. This work will aid students in developing a final research project and paper in relationship to the course material.Prerequisite: UC Entry Level Writing Requirement or UC Analytical Writing Placement Exam.
GSI: Randi Evans, Instructor of Record:Angela Marino, 4 unitsTheater R1B (sections 6) – Writing About Performance  
In this course we will investigate performance as a theoretical lens, artistic medium, and everyday practice. Research and writing will focus upon photography, ritual, sports, dance on film, and live theater. Through discussion, frequent writing assignments, and the texts of performance studies scholars, we will hone our critical thinking skills and learn to formulate productive topics, questions, and analysis. Students will attend on and off campus events, learn to evaluate sources, and develop projects that will culminate in a final research paper.Prerequisites: R1A or its equivalent. 
Instructor: Michelle Summers, 4 unitsTheater 10 – Fundamentals of Acting I
Fundamentals of Acting I is the entry level course for the acting sequence and focuses on releasing and cultivating the actor’s inherent creativity. Through exercises, improvisation, scenes, and monologues, the actor begins to develop basic techniques designed to stimulate the imagination, develop vocal and physical ability, increase awareness of self and others, introduce effective ways to analyze texts, think critically about the craft of acting, and enhance self-confidence and communication skills. This class is the essential beginning of the actor’s studies, which will ultimately allow her or him to effectively engage and explore work from a rich diversity of genres, styles, and backgrounds. An audition is required for admission to the class.  Sign-ups for auditions are available on-line at tdps.berkeley.edu starting August 14, and auditions are held at the beginning of the semester.  Audition requirements: a one-minute speech from a play, film or selection of prose.  Memorization is strongly encouraged.  Students accepted into the class will be given the course control number on the first day of class. 3 units.There are four sections of this course:
1: Margo Hall, 2: Margo Hall, 3: Jessica Berman, 4: Michael MoranTheater 24: Freshman Seminar: Documentary Playmaking
On the fateful morning of September 4, 1957, a small group of African-American students walked up to the doors of Central High, Little Rock, to enroll in school–and were turned away by the armed National Guard. Arkansas State Governor Faubus had called out the Guard to surround the building. “Blood will run in the streets,” said Faubus, “if Negro pupils should attempt to enter Central High School.” A racist mob seethed out front. Eventually the courageous group of children did enter. The first of them graduated in the spring of 1958. They came to be known as the Little Rock Nine; Central High was the first major integrated public high school in the South. Nowadays many people regard their mentor, Daisy Bates, on a level with Martin Luther King, Jr. Each student in our Freshman Seminar will select a person who participated in the integration of Central High, study historical documents linked with that individual, and develop an original monologue in the role of the person, perhaps as one of the Little Rock Nine or as the Governor or as the principal of Central High. We will encourage each student to experiment with a role different from his or her own gender and cultural background. The Long Shadow of Little Rock by Daisy Bates and Warriors Don’t Cry by Melba Pattillo Beals will be the required books. This is a Course Threads Theme Seminar.
8 Weeks starting 9/11/17Instructor: Dunbar H. Ogden, 1 UnitTheater 26 (section 1)  – Introduction to Performance Studies
Why do you love performance? Do you feel like you have the vocabulary that you need to explain your passion to others? Do you feel like you know where your passion as an artist (or audience members) exists relative to other performance practices? What does it mean to pursue your passion within the liberal arts context of a big university? How do you explain to others that this is an academic discipline, not only an extracurricular activity?Theater 26 is a class where you will learn about many different styles of performance, and how they are able to make an impact upon the world: not just to represent it, but to make it better—more beautiful, more filled with possibility, more just. In doing so, you will develop an analytical vocabulary that will serve you well within the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, but you will probably also find that it applies elsewhere too!Instructor: Abigail De Kosnik, 4 units. You must also sign up for a discussion session (no additional credit).Theater 39 (section 1) – Freshman/Sophomore Seminar: Movement, Awareness and Learning
How do we learn?  How do we learn to learn?  What do feeling, sensing, thinking, and doing have to do with learning? What does movement have to do with all of these?  (How) can one become more aware of oneself in movement?  This weekly seminar will have two parts:  during the first 50 minutes, you will do a Feldenkrais Method (R) Awareness-through-Movement lesson; then, after a short break, we will discuss the lesson and/or short readings tailored to your interests. You will be asked to do some light writing.  No previous experience with dance or Feldenkrais is required.    Open to the open-minded…Instructor: Marianne Constable, 2 unitsTheater 39 (section 2) – Freshman/Sophomore Seminar: Best Films 2016 and the Films that Influenced Them
In this seminar, we will watch the top 10+ movies of 2016 (according to my personal, subjective ranking) in conjunction with great films of the past that influenced them.  Every week, a 2016 film will be paired with an earlier film that bears some relation to it.  For instance, we will watch Moonlight in conjunction with Daughters of the Dust, The Handmaiden together with Bound, Arrival alongside Gravity, and so on.  Watching recent films with older films will allow us to identify the cinematic vocabularies, and the techniques in audiovisual storytelling, that characterize excellence in filmmaking and persist over time.Instructor: Abigail De Kosnik, 2 unitsTheater 40 – Introduction to Modern Dance Technique
This course is an introduction to modern dance. No prior dance experience is required. This beginning-level course will explore a variety of modern dance movement styles and develop basic technical skills. Special focus will be given to sound body alignment principles and the dynamic use of weight. We will also experiment with movement initiation, rhythmic awareness, using space, energy/dynamics, and self-expression. The course will further the student’s modern technique through movement, observation, analysis, and writing. Each class will consist of exercises that warm-up the body and build technical skills, followed by phrases that travel through space, and end with a longer combination of choreographed movement. Individual experimentation with movement concepts is highly encouraged and integral to the development of the dancer. This is the first level of modern dance technique taught in a four-level sequence. Regular attendance is required for this class. There is a required placement class on the first day of class. No special preparation is required, however students should be in good physical condition and feel comfortable moving with full effort. Footless tights, leotards, or fitted gym clothes are suggested attire.Instructor: Latanya Tigner, 2 units.Theater 52AC – Dance in American Culture
This course fulfills the University American Cultures requirement, a breadth requirement that ensures that all UC Berkeley students are introduced to the diverse cultures of the United States through a comparative framework. In this course we view this diversity through the cultural practice of dance. We explore dance as a meaning-making expressive form. Over the term we will develop the tools necessary for looking at dance, analyzing it, writing about it, and understanding its place in larger social, cultural, and political structures. We will look at a variety of US American dance genres, understanding them through their historical and cultural contexts in order to explore how issues of race, gender, sexuality and class affect the practice and the reception of different dance forms, and, in turn, how dance might help shape representations of these identities. Ethnic groups that the course studies include African Americans, indigenous peoples of the United States, Asian Americans, Chicanos/Latinos, and European Americans. This course is designed to be accessible to students with no prior experience in dance. This is a not a studio-based dance class.Instructor: Michelle Summers, 4 units. You must also sign up for a discussion session (no additional credit).Theater 60 – Introduction to Technical Theater and Production (formerly Stagecraft)
A practical introduction to the terminology, theories, approaches, and techniques of technical theater and production. The course will cover theatrical terminology, stage equipment and architecture, production personnel and processes, and design departments, including: scenery, properties, costumes, lighting, sound, and video. The course has a laboratory component. Students will be assigned to work on departmental productions either as technical run crew or in department shops.Instructor: Laxmi Kumaran, 4 unitsDirected Group Study: Theater 98 – Section 1 – New Play Practicum
Participate in the new play process! Auditions will take place in the third week and CCNs will then be distributed to participants.Instructor: Lashon Daley, Aparna Nambiar, Toshi Pau
Instructor of Record: Brandi Catanese 1 unit DECAL CLASS Theater 98 (section 2) – The God Bill Murray Came from Improv: You Too Can Learn Improv
Improv is a beautiful art that leads to creativity, catharsis, and just all around better people. Not only that but sometimes it also leads to fame! Kristen Wiig, Will Ferrell, Bill Murray, and Tina Fey are only some of the big names that have come out of improv. This course will focus on learning the fundamentals of doing long form improv. Long form consists of creating a montage of scenes based on one simple audience suggestion. Students will learn a wide variety of techniques used by UCB, Second City, iO, and The Annoyance Theatre. During the classes, we will use exercises, notes, and examples of established improv theaters to build our skills while simultaneously acquiring the blueprints for a successful improv scene. To pass, you will watch a total of 4 UCB improv shows online, attend a total of 4 on campus improv shows (and write reflections), and complete the 3 readings that will be assigned.Instructor: Adrian Ruvalcaba, Supervising Instructor: Maura Tang, 1 unitTheater 99 – Independent Study                                                                                         Email Michael Mansfield at tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.edu to ask for a copy of the application. This is the opportunity to do a semester of research and study in the area of your choice working in collaboration with a faculty member. Independent Study proposal is due to Michael Mansfield by the first friday in May to be reviewed for the following fall semester. 1-3 variable units. CCN released upon approval.  Theater 109 – Fundamentals of Acting II 
Fundamentals of Acting II continues working with and expands upon basic concepts introduced in Theater 10. Through exercises, improvisation, scenes and monologues, the actor works toward the goal of increasing range, depth and flexibility; students work on more complex texts, exploring characters removed from their everyday experience that require more in-depth research and stronger imagination to inhabit.There are two sections of this course.
Instructors: 1. Jessica Hirigoyen 2. Maura Tang, 3 units. 
Theater 110A – Intermediate Acting: Scene Study and Style
While continuing the work begun in TDPS 10 and 109, Scene Study and Style focuses on the actor’s relationship with multiple genres and forms of drama; increased focus is given to the specific demands and responsibilities of performing with heightened language and the complexities of characterization and style; emphasis is also given to achieving an understanding of dramatic action, developing technical proficiency and clarity, attaining emotional availability, and cultivating an enriched relationship with text. Through exercises, improvisation, scenes, and monologues, the actor learns how to transform intuitive creativity into performative excellence. Audition required for admission to the class. Sign-ups for auditions will be available on-line at tdps.berkeley.edu starting August 14, and auditions are held at the beginning of the semester. Audition requirements: a one-minute monologue from a play, which must be memorized. If you are accepted into the course, the instructor will give you a course control number on the first day your class meets.There are two sections of this course.
Instructors: 1. Christopher Herold, 2. Maura Tang, 3 unitsTheater 111 – Advanced Acting Studio 
Advanced Acting Studio finishes the acting technique progression that begins with TDPS 10. Through scene-work, monologues, and exercises, the actor stretches and strengthens acting techniques, voice, movement, and speech; particular attention is given to character development and style; students also develop classical and contemporary audition material. Audition required for admission to the class. Sign-ups for auditions will be available on-line at tdps.berkeley.edu starting August 15 for Fall classes and December 1 for Spring classes and auditions are held at the beginning of the semester. Audition requirements: a one minute monologue from a play which must be memorized. If you are accepted into the course, the instructor will give you a course control number on the first day your class meets.Instructor: Lura Dolas, 3 unitsTheater 114 – Performance Workshop: Queer Movement Perspectives and PracticesThis workshop has three goals: 1) To invite participation of the queer body, to practice somatically in an effort to align our bodies with our intention to accept ourselves and others; 2) To discover certain historical perspectives on performance that emanate from the LGBTQ experience and to notice how that knowledge affects our working processes; and 3) To learn how to collaborate on “making” an embodied performance, given the diversity of our backgrounds and experiences. Throughout the semester, we will have guest artists from the Bay Area and beyond, including (but not limited to): Sean Dorsey, The Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, Doran George, Fauxnique, and Brontez Purnell.Instructor: Joe Goode, 3 unitsTheater 119 – Performance Theory: Theatrical Modernism
This course serves as a survey of experimental theater in the twentieth century.  What do we mean by the term “modernism” and what performance techniques were manifested within it? In this course, we will read and view a number of landmark performances from a variety of national contexts and theatrical traditions that have made a lasting impression on theater and drama of the last century, in order to explore thematic and formal engagements with modernism and its aftermath by directors, actors, playwrights, and choreographers who shaped contemporary performance.  We will concern ourselves primarily with the following dynamics: the rise of the director’s theater, the shift in acting style away from psychological realism, and the ongoing conversation between the performing and the visual arts that contributed to the unique innovations in performance and design.  Performances/texts will include: Anton Chekhov, The Cherry Orchard; “cabaret” theater (including the Futurists, the Dadaists); Eugene O’Neill, The Hairy Ape; Bertolt Brecht, Good Woman of Setzuan; Samuel Beckett, Endgame; Jean Genet, The Balcony; Jerzy Grotowski, Akropolis; Peter Weiss, Marat/Sade; The Performance Group,Dionysus in 69; DV8, Enter Achilles.Instructor: Shannon Steen, 4 unitsTheater 121  – Performance and Culture: Modernist Expressions: Early 20th Century Ballet and Modern Dance
In 1933, the New York Times dance critic, John Martin, opined: “The modern dance is not a system; it is a point of view.”  In this class we will examine the many competing points of view that fueled “modern” and/or modernist American and European concert dance during the first half of the twentieth century. Following a chronological trajectory we will begin with works by the interpretive dancers of the early 20th century (Loie Fuller, Isadora Duncan, etc.) and complete the semester with the self-reflexive modernist works of George Balanchine and Merce Cunningham. Focus will be on close readings of specific dances situated within their social and cultural contexts. Artists covered include Rudolph von Laban, Mary Wigman, Vaslav Nijinsky, Bronislava Nijinska, Leonide Massine, Martha Graham, Talley Beatty, Agnes de Mille, Jose Limon, Anna Sokolow, Pearl Primus, Donald McKayle, and Jerome Robbins.Grades will be based on class participation (including short homework assignments), one paper, a midterm and a final exam.Instructor: Jenefer Johnson, 4 unitsTheater 125 – Performance/History – History of Celebrity
This course will examine the history of celebrity from its origins in pre-modern and early modern worship of gods, kings, and priests; to its use in 18th- and 19th-century nation-building; to Beyonce. Along the way, we’ll ask questions such as: Why do cultures need celebrities? What role do they fulfill in society? What makes celebrities so fascinating? (How, exactly, is a star born?) Do celebrities have the power to change society, or do they merely reflect and amplify values that are already there? (Can celebrity be subversive?) How can the virginity of Elizabeth I help us to understand the rise of Donald Trump? And what can we learn if we decide to take Kim Kardashian seriously?Instructor: Julia Fawcett, 4 unitsTheater 126 – Social Movements and Migration in Latin American Theater
This class will examine the literary/drama works of primarily the western pacific of the North and South America to analyze performance in the context of migrational histories, mobilities and exile. Focusing on Mexico, the U.S. Southwest, and Chile, the footprints of generations of people that have left their mark in performance will be the source of inspiration in the material of this class through playwrights of both historical notoriety and contemporary relevance. From the Mexica performance of mitotes, and areitos to the prodigal nun, Juana Inés de la Cruz, to the contemporary dramas of Emilio Carballido, Egon Wolff, Sabina Berman, Culture Clash and the hybrid punk aesthetics of performance artists Asco and Guillermo Gomez Peña. Students will be introduced to a variety of contemporary stage performance in the U.S. southwest and Mexico, mainly in theatrical play texts as literary works in English translation, with some performance, plays and the novel The House of The Spirits by Isabel Allende in the Chilean context. We will also view some productions in class with opportunities for staged readings and short scene work.Instructor: Angela Marino, 4 unitsTheater 139A– Fundamentals of Playwriting
A practical course for playwrights, both beginning and more advanced students. Through lecture, exercises, in class readings and group discussion, the class will explore the practical craft elements of playwriting along with the finding of personal voice in one’s work. Students will write two short plays during the semester. To be considered for the course, submit a sample of creative writing (up to five pages) by August 14 to the instructor’s mailbox in 101 Dwinelle Annex. Include your name, year, major, phone number, and email address. For those who miss the deadline, you are advised to attend the first class. Enrollment is limited.Instructor: Philip Gotanda,  3 unitsTheater 141– Intermediate Modern Dance Technique
This course is designed for students who wish to continue progressing through the TDPS dance technique sequence. Students with prior dance training will refine their dance skills and experience new kinesthetic challenges. Students will be exposed to a variety of modern dance styles and training practices with an emphasis on the study of  a variety of African diaspora movement forms with a concentration on Afro Cuban and Afro Brazilian Orisha dance and Capoeira. Students will continue to develop their basic dance skills by expanding their movement vocabulary, learning to work with different musical structures, poly rhythms and tempos, developing more articulation in the body and clarity in movement. Students will also be exposed to improvisational structures, inversions & floor work. Enrollment is decided by audition on the first day of class. The prerequisite for this course is Beginning Modern Dance Technique, Theater 40 or by audition.Instructor: Amara Smith,  2 unitsTheater 142– Advanced Modern Dance Technique 
The primary goal of this course is to teach students how to use the training they received in Beginning (40A/B) and Intermediate (141A/B) Modern Dance Technique to transcend pure technical knowledge and become more fully realized dancers. To this end students will be asked to: learn longer dance combinations, dance with confidence and commitment, learn more complex floor patterns and rhythmic structures, learn through peer feedback, contribute compositional ideas to the class, and experience dance as performance. Students will continue to be exposed to dance improvisation and basic partnering. This is the third level of modern dance technique taught in a four-level sequence. Enrollment is decided by audition on the first day of class. The prerequisite for this course is Intermediate Modern Dance Technique, Theater 141 or by audition.Instructor: James Graham, 2 unitsTheater 144– Sources of Movement 
This course introduces students to basic underlying sources and techniques necessary for creating dance choreography. It is open to non-majors and can be used to satisfy a pre-requisite for 146A Choreography. The curriculum consists of assignments that explore various processes for sourcing movement – whether that seed source comes from within the body/psyche or whether that source originates from without. In either case, the student will be creating movement and developing conceptual ideas into choreographic statements. Fundamental to this class is the notion that the body moves through space in dynamic ways – constantly changing patterns and shapes in relationship to the environment, community, and culture. It is a chance to begin to locate one’s own personal movement style. There are no prerequisites for this class. Students need to be present on the first day of class, or speak to the instructor in advance.Instructor: Katie Faulkner, 3 unitsTheater 146A– Choreography: Solo and Duet Forms 
This course will focus on the creation of a solo/duet dance in the style of modern/contemporary concert dance. The beginning of the semester includes in-class exercises on the topics of: understanding form, structure, and use of space; phrasing; partnering; and developing choreographic strategies. The second part of the class involves auditioning dancers/performers for choreographic studies, setting outside rehearsal times and completing given choreographic assignments. The class concludes with a public showing of the dance piece created within the course.
Prerequisites: Sources of Movement: Theater 144 OR Movement Improvidsation: Theater 148. It is highly recommended that students be enrolled in a dance technique class while taking this course. Enrollment is limited.
In the fifth week of the semester, choreographers will cast dancers to perform in their pieces. If you wish to be considered for this 1 unit of credit of 146A as a dancer, please keep your Thursday afternoon 2-4:30 slot open. As a choreographer, if you are cast in another choreographer’s piece, you will add a second course in the 5th week under a section of Theater 171.Instructor: Joe Goode, 1-3 units (for the choreography students), 1 unit (for students dancing in the choreographic works – added in the 5th week)Theater 151A – Histories of Performance: Performance and Community
This history survey course examines performance’s role in mass movements: of politics, of religion, of revolution, and of the creation of communities around nations, traditions, or cultures.The course will explore a cluster of different theater/performance traditions, both Western and non-Western. Using a comparative methodology rather than cumulative one, students learn to appreciate the diversity of theater and performance strategies and traditions while at the same time understanding how similar questions and explorations have haunted performers across continents and across centuries.Instructor: Julia Fawcett, 3 unitsTheater 162– Fundamentals of Stage DirectingThis course introduces students to the basic skills required of stage directors and trains them in their use. Emphasis will be placed upon script analysis and dramaturgy, communicating with actors and guiding them to effective choices and performances, use of space, blocking, and developing a concept. These topics will be examined through a combination of lectures, readings, in-class scene work and critiques, viewing plays, and conversations with visiting artists. Requirements will include directing and acting in scenes for the class, reading plays and essays, contributing to discussions, and brief weekly written critiques of a scene, reading, or play. Some degree of classroom training as an actor is considered a prerequisite for Theater 162. Students MUST attend the first class meeting for admission into the course, with no exceptions. Course control number released by instructor upon admission. This class is a prerequisite for the Spring class, Theater 163 – Advanced Directing.Instructor: Peter Glazer, 3 unitsTheater 166 (section 2) – Special Topics:  Independent Film Screenwriting—Investigating the Personal Aesthetic of Storytelling.
The course investigates the development of an individualized film-aesthetic and how it informs the conceptual and dramatic point of view of the screenplay.  This will be done through lecture, screening of select films, discussion, and writing prompts.   Professor Gotanda will draw from his career as a playwright and indie filmmaker to build the curriculum.  At the core of the course will be the students’ understanding and development of an independent, highly specific, vocabulary for their telling of the story.  Rather than a course on how to write the next blockbuster movie, this class will ask:  If you are your own camera and an amalgam of intimate dramatic truths begin to speak in a visual narrative, what kind of film would your body make?Instructor: Philip Gotanda, 4 unitsTheater 167– Technical Theater: Performance Practice
Hours to be arranged – email Wil Leggett, the Production Manager, at willeggett@berkeley.edu to receive syllabus, schedules, and enrollment forms. You may contact the Production Manager as early as the first week of the prior semester to be added to the waitlist for the following semester. Theater 167 involves participation in technical theater practice associated with departmental theater and dance productions to include technical run crew for live performance in one of: lighting, sound, video, properties, costumes, make-up, scenery, deck, rail.Instructor: Wil Leggett, 1 unit. CCN released upon admission.Theater 168 – Technical Theater: Shop Practice
Hours to be arranged – email Wil Leggett, the Production Manager, at willeggett@berkeley.edu to receive syllabus and enrollment forms. You may contact the Production Manager as early as the first week of the prior semester to be added to the waitlist for the following semester. Theater 168 involves participation in technical theater practice associated with departmental theater and dance productions to include workshop activities (fabrication, treatment, and installation) in one or more of: costume, hair, make-up, scenery, properties, lighting, video, and sound for live performanceLaboratory schedules are:
Scenery: M/W 2-5 or T/TH 2-5
Costumes: M/W 2-5 or T/TH 2-5
Lighting: T/TH 2-5 or W/F 2-5Instructor: Wil Leggett, 2 units. CCN released upon admission.Theater 169 – Advanced Technical Theater Practice
Hours to be arranged – email Wil Leggett, the Production Manager, at willeggett@berkeley.edu to receive syllabus and enrollment forms. You may contact the Production Manager as early as the first week of the prior semester to be added to the waitlist for the following semester. Theater 169 involves participation in advanced technical theater practice associated with departmental theater and dance production to include lead, head, or coordinator position with technical run crew for live performance in one of: lighting, sound, video, properties, costumes, make-up, scenery, deck, rail or advanced application of workshop activities (fabrication, treatment, and installation) in one or more of: costume, hair, make-up, scenery, properties, lighting, video, and sound for live performance.  Intended for a student who has completed introductory level application of theater practice and is training in advanced techniques and applications and/or assuming additional responsibilities in relation to production.Instructor: Wil Leggett, 1-3 variable units. CCN released upon admission.Theater 171 – (section 1) Theater Performance: Audition Technique
For the advanced actor preparing for the 2018 graduate school auditions. Participants work in individual coaching sessions with the instructor. Two-semester commitment required unless a December graduation is anticipated. Students are admitted by interview and with the recommendation of the acting faculty.  Limited enrollment. Those interested should watch for a sign-up sheet on the Dwinelle Annex hallway board in early September.       Instructor: Lura Dolas, time TBD with individual student, 1 unit, P/NP. CCN released upon admission.Theater 172– Stage Management 
This course is a practical introduction to the theory and execution of stage management for the theater. One major production assignment on a departmental production is required. There will be special emphasis on production organization and problem solving in connection with the production assignment dimension of the course. Prerequisite for this class is either Theater 60 or equivalent training or experience for transfer and exchange students.Instructor: Laxmi Kumaran, 4-6 unitsTheater 173– Scenic Design for the Theater
This introductory course teaches some fundamentals of scenic design. Design for live performance will be approached as an integration of all the performative tools – text, visuals, sound, space, kinetics, etc – with particular focus in this class on the overall scenographic environment. Through personal development and group explorations students will be given basic conceptual and art-making tools allowing them to evolve, communicate and realize scenic and environmental solutions. Previous art training is helpful but not essential. The student must provide most art supplies.Instructor: Annie Smart, 3 unitsTheater 174– Costume Design for the Theater
This studio class explores some fundamental approaches and techniques for designing costume. Performance design will be approached as a product of all the performative tools and contexts – text, visuals, sound, space, kinetics, etc – with particular focus for this class on the scenographic role of the performer. Through personal expression and collaborative investigation students will be given some basic tools allowing them to conceptualize, communicate and realize costumes. Previous art training is helpful but not essential. The student must provide most art supplies.Instructor: Annie Smart, 3 unitsTheater 175A– Lighting Design for the Theater
This course will introduce you to the tools, terms, and techniques of stage lighting. Lectures cover explanations of lighting concepts and equipment. Working as part of a production crew will demonstrate those tools, terms, and techniques in their applications on stage. The goal of the course is to equip you with the skills needed to be an active participant in the production process while providing you with a background in the methods and materials of stage lighting as a foundation for the study of stage lighting design.TDPS Majors should enroll in this course as soon as possible (Phase 1) to be assured of a seat. Students from other departments are also enrolling in this course and by Phase 2 the course is sometimes full.Instructor: Jack Carpenter, 4 unitsTheater 176– Advanced Theatrical DesignStudents of lighting design are provided experience, structure, and support in the practical application of design to the stage in departmental productions. Contact instructor for information about participation and course control numbers.Instructor: Jack Carpenter, 1-3 variable unitsTheater 177 – Sound Design and Media Theater
In this course, undergraduate students will learn to construct sound cues and soundtracks for theater performances and videos using industry standard software, and will learn fundamental principles of incorporating video and sound into stage productions. Students will be exposed to the writings and works of prominent sound theorists, designers, and engineers and multimedia performance artists. The most successful students may be invited to participate in UC Berkeley theater productions as sound designers.Instructor: Michael St. Clair, 4 unitsTheater 179 – Supervised Theatrical DesignStudents who have taken TDPS design classes are offered opportunities to participate in practical scenographic explorations by taking responsibility for designing, or assistant designing department shows. This includes the designing of costumes, scenery, projections and special properties. The level of experience and commitment required varies so each project is tailored to the needs and abilities of each student and their particular production context. Contact instructor well in advance for information about participation and for CCN and other protocols.Instructor: Annie Smart, 1- 3 units Theater 180 – Theatrical Realization of DanceThis class is designed for students who are seriously interested in performing dance on the concert stage. Involvement prepares students to perform in a highly produced dance concert called the Berkeley Dance Project. The course is designed to teach students about the process of dancing for a choreographer. This will involve: participating fully in all rehearsals and all required performances, contributing ideas to the creative process, and being open to choreographic strategies and methods. Audition is required. CCN released after audition. See the Theater, Dance, and Performance website for exact dates of the Berkeley Dance Project.Instructors: Katie Faulkner, 0.5-3 variable unitsTheater 181 – Theatrical Realization of Dramatic Text
Metamorphoses and Mechanics of Love are the two fall productions. There are two sections of this course. Auditions will be the first weeks of the semester.Instructors: 1. Christopher T. Herold 2. Christine Nicolson, 1-4 variable UnitsTheater H195A/B – Honors Thesis
Email Michael Mansfield at tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.edu to ask for a copy of the application. This is a two-semester written honors thesis, working in collaboration with one faculty member and a second faculty reader. This includes a first semester of research and a second semester of writing a thesis. Thesis proposal is due to Michael Mansfield by the first Friday in May to be reviewed for the following fall semester.  4 units each semester.  CCN released upon approval.Theater 196 – Universal Theater Workshop
Develop a production concept and propose it for the following TDPS season. Check the TDPS website under Student Resources for more information. Proposals due in February 2018 for the Fall 18/Spring 19 school year.  1-4 unitsTheater 197 – Internship
Develop an internship opportunity for yourself off-campus for credit. Work with a non-paying, experience-rich group or company for 3, 6, 9, or 12 hours a week for 15 weeks. Check the TDPS website under Student Resources for more information. Proposals due by early December before Spring internship would begin.  1-4 unitsTheater 198 – Teaching a DeCal Course
Do you have a special theater skill, passion, or training? Consider teaching a course in TDPS. Check the TDPS website under Student Resources for more information. Proposals due in February 2018 for the Fall 18 teaching opportunity.  1 unitTheater 199 – Independent Study
Email Michael Mansfield at tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.edu to ask for a copy of the application. This is the opportunity to do a semester of research and study in the area of your choice working in collaboration with a faculty member. Independent Study proposal is due to Michael Mansfield by the first Friday in May to be reviewed for the following fall semester. 1-3 variable units.  CCN released upon approval.(Undergraduates, please note policy below about participation in graduate course.)Theater 200A – Graduate Colloquium 
This course is designed to introduce graduate students to the research resources of the University, to the methodologies and research interests of the faculty affiliated with the Ph.D. program, to the demands of a professional academic career, and to trends and developments in theater, dance, and performance studies.Instructor: Brandi Catanese, 2 unitsTheater 201A – Performance Theory
Part one of a two-semester core sequence on performance theory, required of first-year Performance Studies PhD students. This course focuses on the foundations of Performance Studies as a field, with special emphasis on its key philosophical and disciplinary antecedents. Topics will include the emergence of performance studies from the confluence of theater and literary studies, anthropology, art history, sociology, and cultural studies, and will include readings on central theoretical concepts such as performativity, the performance of everyday life, and the interventions of the 1990s regarding the role of performance in the formation of race, gender, sexuality, national identity, colonialism and more.   “Meets the Graduate Certificate in Global Urban Humanities elective requirement.”Instructor: Shannon Jackson, 4 unitsTheater 266 (section 1) – Patriot Acts: Nation, Performance, Identity
This seminar will explore how public performances help individuals understand and define their relationship to the State. Whether singing national songs at sporting events (or not singing), valorizing or destabilizing national symbols, protesting and chanting on the streets and in the public square, or engaging in small, local celebrations around dates of significance or national holidays, individual identities as residents or citizens are tested and/or solidified through performance. Working from John Bodnar’s framing of official vs. vernacular performances (official as top-down, formal, dominant; vernacular as bottom-up, local, resistant) we will examine performances in a variety of national and regional contexts. When do individuals feel served and validated by official performances, and how do these performances work to accomplish nation building? By contrast, when do people feel the need to resist the official, national discourse with vernacular performances, and how can these help them build a sense of unity and belonging that may be counter to official constructions and mandates?Instructor: Peter Glazer, 4 unitsTheater 266 (section 2)  History and Theory of New Media
This graduate seminar is one of the core requirements for the Designated Emphasis in New Media, offered by the Berkeley Center for New Media.  This course will provide participants with a foundation in new media studies (major works, authors, historical events, objects, and schools of thought), such that they will be able to compile reading lists for their qualifying exams, bibliographies for their dissertations, and syllabi for their courses on topics related to new media.  It will develop participants’ skills in analyzing new media texts and artifacts, articulating their insights in speech and writing, and developing individual new media research projects.Instructor: Abigail De Kosnik, 4 unitsPolicy on Undergraduate Participation in Graduate CourseGraduate courses in Performance Studies are open to all qualified graduate students; however, unusually qualified undergraduate students may be eligible to take graduate seminars offered through the Graduate Group in Performance Studies.  Undergraduate students wishing to register for a graduate seminar must meet all of the following conditions:For TDPS Majors:a. Have already taken the three required PS upper division courses, with a GPA of at least 3.6 average in those courses.b. Have the prior written approval of the instructor, acknowledging that they have discussed the course with you, and have been informed of your background and GPA.c. Understand that the graduate seminar is taken as an “elective”.For non-TDPS Majorsa. Have at least a 3.6 GPA in relevant upper-division coursework in another department (i.e., formal courses in literature, history, theory, or cultural studies), and have taken at least three upper-division courses of this kind in the home department.b. Have the prior written approval of the instructor, acknowledging that they have discussed the course with the student, and instructor has been informed of student’s background and GPA.It is understood that in approaching an instructor for permission, the student will make their qualifications for the course (i.e. prior background and GPA) known to the instructor; students who have instructor approval but do not meet the GPA/background requirement will not be permitted in the course.It is understood that the required classes for the Ph.D. in Performance Studies (200, 201, 202, 203) are normally closed to undergraduate students, as these courses play a crucial role both in professionalizing Ph.D. students and in providing them with a common critical vocabulary.    15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduPlease see the bottom portion of Fall Courses and Spring Courses for course descriptions and Class Schedule for Day/Time/Room information.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduPlease see the bottom portion of Fall Courses and Spring Courses for course descriptions and Class Schedule for Day/Time/Room information.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduWe couldn't find what you're looking for. Please try again.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduCourses required of our undergraduate majors are offered at least once a year, in either Fall or Spring depending on faculty availability and departmental needs.  Given that the exact timing of required courses cannot always be predicted, students are strongly urged to take their requirements as early in their time in TDPS as possible.  Exceptions to the requirements will not be made.See the TDPS Class Schedule for a list of classes – title/instructor/day/time/locationSee the Berkeley Academic Guide for a full listing of  Spring 2018 TDPS Courses, including descriptions and special enrollment instructions.Graduate courses in Performance Studies are open to all qualified graduate students; however, unusually qualified undergraduate students may be eligible to take graduate seminars offered through the Graduate Group in Performance Studies.  Undergraduate students wishing to register for a graduate seminar must meet all of the following conditions:For TDPS Majors:a. have already taken the three required PS upper division courses, with a GPA of at least 3.6 average in those courses
b. have the prior written approval of the instructor, acknowledging that s/he has discussed the course with you, and has been informed of your background and GPA
c. understand that the graduate seminar is taken as an “elective”For non-TDPS Majorsa. have a GPA of at least 3.6 average in relevant upper-division coursework in another department (i.e., formal courses in literature, history, theory, or cultural studies), and have taken at least three upper-division courses of this kind in the home department
b. have the prior written approval of the instructor, acknowledging that s/he has discussed the course with the student, and has been informed of his/her background and GPAIt is understood that in approaching an instructor for permission, the student will make his/her qualifications for the course (i.e. prior background and GPA) known to the instructor; students who have instructor approval but do not meet the GPA/background requirement will not be permitted in the course.It is understood that the required classes for the Ph.D. in Performance Studies (200, 201, 202, 203) are normally closed to undergraduate students, as these courses play a crucial role both in professionalizing Ph.D. students and in providing them with a common critical vocabulary.   15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.edu THEATER 113A – IRISH THEATER (Study Abroad) THEATER 117AC – STAGING RACE IN CALIFORNIA (ONLINE)Californians often think of our home state as a kind of “post-racial” space, one free of racial preference, discrimination, and prejudice, but to what extent is this true? This course explores two dynamics: (1) the racial structures of California historically and in the contemporary moment, and (2) how cultural systems of performance help shape social systems of race. We will consider the role a range of performance forms – theater, film, pageants, political protests – have played in shaping California’s unique cultural and racial topography. We will use the histories of play productions and para-theatrical performances to interrogate conceptions of California as a “post-racial” state.Session C | Online |  Shannon Steen | 4 unitsThis course has no class meetings. It takes place entirely over the Internet. The deadline to register/add this course is XXX THEATER 118AC – PERFORMANCE, TELEVISION, AND SOCIAL MEDIA (ONLINE)This course examines the intersections of performance and media – specifically the media forms of television and social media in the U.S. – with a focus on how various types of difference (race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and socioeconomic class) are enacted, articulated, represented, and played on TV and social media platforms. This course fulfills the requirement for TDPS majors and minors for an upper-division Performance Studies course (“Performance and Theory” category).Session C | Online |  TBD |  4 unitsThis course has no class meetings. It takes place entirely over the Internet. The deadline to register/add this course is XXX THEATER 5 (sections 1 and 2) – PUBLIC SPEAKINGIn this highly interactive class, students will study the fundamentals of presentation in order to minimize the anxiety associated with public speaking and foster the skills necessary for clear, persuasive oral communication in professional settings. Instruction will include effective use of vocal intonation, body language and eye contact as well as techniques for organizing material for maximum impact. The techniques discussed are applicable to a host of situations – from small meeting presentations to keynote speeches and convention addresses. Small class size will allow individual attention and offer participants ample opportunity to “rehearse” the techniques in a safe and nurturing environment.Session D | MTWTF 9:00AM-12:00PM or 1:00PM – 4:00PM | 7 Zellerbach | Lisa Porter | 3 units THEATER 10 – FUNDAMENTALS OF ACTING IThis is the entry level course for the acting sequence and focuses on releasing and cultivating the actor’s inherent creativity. Through exercises, improvisation, scenes, and monologues, the actor begins to develop basic techniques designed to stimulate the imagination, develop vocal and physical ability, increase awareness of self and others, introduce effective ways to analyze texts, think critically about the craft of acting, and enhance self-confidence and communication skills. This class is the essential beginning of the actor’s studies, which will ultimately allow her or him to effectively engage and explore work from a rich diversity of genres, styles, and backgrounds.Session D | MTWTF 9:00AM-12:00PM | D23 Hearst Field Annex | TBD | 3 units THEATER 114 (section 1) – INTERACTIVE THEATER – ACTING FOR SOCIAL CHANGE (PERFORMANCE WORKSHOP)Engage for 6 weeks in creating a social justice summer theater company. Each day we deepen our practice by developing full-bodied and whole-hearted skills: the technical needs of an actor (voice, speech, physical movement, and character development) and the personal cultural awareness and communication habits of an activist. We will activate our imaginations, give voice to stories of injustice, and move the classroom community from page to stage, from company membership to civic leadership. Grounded in the work of Augusto Boal, we will experience the role of theater in education, justice-making, and societal transformation, and strengthen our practice as writers, actors, directors, witnesses, and makers of theater and social change. Interactive theater training and performance mixed with multicultural and communication skills prepare us for deeper artistic, academic, and activist work in our personal and professional worlds. No previous acting training or experience necessary.Session D | MTWTF 9:00AM-12:00PM | Durham Studio Theater | Michael Mansfield | 3 units THEATER 166 (section 1)  – CLEAR SPEECH FOR ESL LEARNERS (SPECIAL TOPICS)This course is designed specifically for ESL learners (students for whom English is a second language) who would like to improve their clarity, expressivity, and confidence in spoken English. Utilizing the International Phonetic Alphabet (the IPA), students will intensively study spoken English pronunciation, word stress, intonation, inflection, and rhythm.  Students will then be given the opportunity to embody the new sounds and principles learned through vocal and physical exploration, improvisation exercises, and scripted presentations. Additional topics include strong and weak forms, word linking, and challenging consonant combinations.Section 2: Session D | MTWTF 1:00PM – 4:00 PM | Durham Studio Theater | Jessica Berman Hirigoyen | 3 unitsTHEATER 166 (section 2)  – FILM PRODUCTION FOR DANCE AND MOVEMENT (SPECIAL TOPICS)The goal of the course is to provide an overview of filmmaking techniques that can be applied to a variety of artistic projects involving the body in motion. The course will begin with historical contextualization of screen dance and video editing basics. It will then build to video production and post-production techniques ranging from the basics to more complex concepts investigating the relationship of the body to the camera, composition, and sound design. The class will study films that represent a range of styles that reject or embrace conventions of Hollywood continuity filmmaking, as well as formal experiments that reimagine what’s possible with the medium of film.Location and context for the class projects will be explored as well as developing content, narrative, and/or conceptual ideas. Everyday camera technology such as web cameras and smartphones will be utilized along with camcorders, DSLRs, and gimbals provided specifically for the class. Students will not only share their projects on the large screen in formal viewing sessions, but they will also be asked to create studies for the small screen: Instagram, Periscope, etc. Students who are comfortable moving/performing in front of the camera are encouraged to take this course. Previous video production experience is not required.  There is a mandatory lab component. Equipment and Lab fee: $30.00.Session E | MTWTF 9:00-12:00PM and 1:00PM – 4:00PM | 285 & 295 Kroeber | Instructor Ben Estabrook | 3 units 15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduIn the past decades, graduate study in the field of performance studies has undergone an energetic renovation, and “performance” itself has become critical to scholarship and research across the humanities. At the same time, this disciplinary ferment has demanded a much higher degree of specialization and of scholarly rigor from Ph.D. candidates seeking academic careers at the college and university level. The Graduate Group Ph.D. in Performance Studies at Berkeley is at the cutting edge of this epistemic shift. Centered in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, it is composed of an unrivaled faculty drawn from across the arts, humanities, and social sciences. Doctoral students have the opportunity to engage in performance activities that complement dissertation research, which itself ranges across the contemporary horizon of performance studies, as shown by the breadth of dissertation topics and placement information on this web site.The Graduate Group in Performance Studies at UC Berkeley provides an interdisciplinary and individually crafted curriculum directed at advanced studies in the literatures, performances, cultural contexts, and theories of performance throughout the world. Based in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, the Ph.D. program at once takes advantage of Berkeley’s distinguished history in the field of drama and theater studies, and opens out to a wider interrogation of the disciplines and methodologies of performance studies. The program is administered by the Graduate Group in Performance Studies, comprised of faculty from a wide range of related departments. Students in the Ph.D. program conduct research in a diverse array of interdisciplinary methodologies, on projects spanning the fields of theater, dance, and performance studies.The Ph.D. in Performance Studies is designed as a five-year program (10 semesters). It offers core courses, but no predetermined areas of emphasis. Each student determines an individual research agenda within the broader field of performance studies, using faculty resources to develop both a clear field specialization and a sense of interdisciplinary innovation.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduApplication deadline – December 1, 8:59 pm (PST)Dear Prospective Student:We are delighted by your interest in the Ph.D. Program in Performance Studies and hope you will find the website materials helpful. Our program is an unusually flexible one, designed to prepare students for advanced research in the field of performance studies. As you know, the program at Berkeley draws its strengths from a Graduate Group of faculty in disciplines ranging across a host of fields and departments. We encourage students to take the initiative in developing a program of coursework that will lead both to a solid command of a given field and to the kind of interdisciplinary research characteristic of the strongest work in performance studies today.Although it’s certain that your interests and plans will evolve, it’s important to us to have as clear a sense as possible of who you are, of your intellectual and artistic interests and accomplishments, and of the critical orientation of your research. Your entire application–transcripts, GRE scores, letters of recommendation, both personal statements, and the critical writing sample–will be read by the admissions committee and some portions of the application receive particularly close scrutiny. We would like to encourage you to use the Personal Statement and Statement of Purpose on the application to outline where you’ve been and your orientation to future research. In our effort to assess whether a program like ours is a good “fit” for you, it’s very helpful to have a strong sense of the kind of work you are thinking about, your intellectual and critical style, and overall preparation for Ph.D. study. We are committed to developing a diverse and energetic research community in the program and are eager to recruit students with a range of intellectual, social, and cultural backgrounds, and the diversity of our faculty is an important asset in this regard. Strong applications, then, usually address potential areas of research in the field of performance studies today. Given the depth and range of our faculty, we are interested in students working on both past and present performance traditions, on literary and non-literary forms of performance, and on a range of theoretical and methodological issues ranging across the spectrum of contemporary ethnic, cultural, and performance studies.There is a great deal of excitement about the program, and about the students who have joined us thus far. Please take the time to carefully read over the graduate program website and contact Robin Davidson, Graduate Student Affairs Officer, if you have any questions. She can be reached at performancestudies@berkeley.edu or 510-664-7613.  We look forward to hearing from you.Sincerely,
Shannon Steen
Head Graduate AdvisorPREPARATION AND ADMISSIONSThe Graduate Group admissions committee seeks applicants with qualities that will enable them to succeed in an intensive interdisciplinary program: creativity and analytical skills, practical experience, individual initiative, and intellectual rigor. Priority will be given to applicants whose research interests dovetail well with current faculty resources.Candidates holding a Bachelor’s degree in theater, literature, performance studies, dance, or any appropriate humanities-related field are eligible to apply for admissions. Candidates with a degree in another field, but with an M.A. in drama or theater arts, or with an M.F.A. in any of the theater arts are also eligible. The Graduate Group is particularly interested in applicants who have already formulated a specific focus of interest, including professional theater practitioners who demonstrate a capacity for and training in advanced scholarly study.It is vital that you thoroughly read all the graduate program information provided on this website (including the FAQs) as well as the information that accompanies the on-line graduate application.As part of the application, you are required to submit the following:IMPORTANT:  All items listed above are required by our program and your application will not be considered without them.  However, not every graduate program at UC Berkeley asks for all of this information so some of these items may not be listed as “Required” in the “Review” section of the general application and missing items will not limit your ability to select “Submit.”  Therefore, it is crucial that you ensure that your application include all of the Performance Studies requirements listed above before submitting it.The Graduate Application for Admission and Fellowships for UC Berkeley is available on-line in early September and is due December 1, 8:59 pm (PST), for consideration for the following academic year. Applicants will hear about the status of their application by late March. To apply, visit http://grad.berkeley.edu/admissions/index.shtml15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduJuan M. Aldape: MA in International Performance Research from the University of Warwick (UK). As practitioner and researcher, his current work focuses on movement, migration and mapping discourses related to undocumented spaces and choreographic processes. Most recently, he co-founded A PerFarmance Project, site-specific collaborations between farmers and performers researching the concept of food security from rural and urban perspectives. He is an Erasmus Mundus Scholar, a regular contributor to loveDancemore performance journal, and the e-resource convener for the International Federation for Theatre Research’s Performance as Research working group. He holds a BFA in Modern Dance and BA in Anthropology from the University of Utah (USA). Email:  juanmaldape@gmail.com  Website: www.juanmaldape.comMiyuki Baker: B.A. Studio Arts, Asian Studies, Swarthmore College (2012). Miyuki is a resident of the place where many circles overlap. They are a queer, multi-racial/lingual artist, activist & academic passionate about using common or discarded objects, stories, zines, and performance in public spaces to make accessible art. Their research examines how we cultivate “hope” and meaning through space, architecture and the environment. Email: miyuki.baker@berkeley.edu Website: heymiyuki.wordpress.comJennifer McPherson Coluccio: B.A. Philosophy, English Literature, University of California, Los Angeles; M.A. Theatre Arts, California State University, Los Angeles. Jennifer is a performer, writer, and scholar with an interest in the intersections of affect, cognition, and the performance of psychopathology. She is concerned with the implications of a poststructural-empirical binary as it relates to the biological, social, and political transmission of affective dis-ease. Email: jennifer.coluccio@berkeley.eduMiyoko Conley: B.F.A, Theatre, New York University; M.A., Individualized Study (Playwriting and Japanese Popular Culture), New York University. Miyoko researches transnational media, fan cultures, and affective technologies, with a focus on Japanese and South Korean popular culture. More broadly, she writes about the intersections of theatre and popular culture, and examines how media phenomenon impact traditional theatre spaces, as well as theatricality in online spaces. Miyoko is also a playwright and performer, and her work engages with what it means to perform with technology.  Email: miko@berkeley.eduLashon Daley: B.A. English, University of Miami (2005); M.F.A. Writing, Sarah Lawrence College (2008); M.A. Folklore, University of California, Berkeley (2015).  Lashon is a PhD scholar in Performance Studies at the University of California, Berkeley and an emerging storyteller.  Her research focuses on the performances of Brer Rabbit tales within contemporary U.S. culture. She is a 2014 Callaloo Poetry Fellow and a 2015 UC Berkeley Chancellor Fellow. Her work has appeared in O, The Oprah Magazine, Storytelling Magazine, and Underwater New York. Her children’s book, Mr. Okra Sells Fresh Fruits and Vegetables, was published by Pelican Publishing in February 2016.  Lashon is also the creator of Stories&Slams, a podcast that focuses on everyday stories.  More information can be found on her website at www.lashondaley.com. Email: l.daley@berkeley.eduBélgica L. del Río: B.A. in Dance and English, University of California Riverside. Bélgica explores the body’s oscillating meanings and power across ethnicity and culture. She is especially interested in technology’s intersection with the performance of identity and the politics of representation in cinema, theatre and popular dance. Her recent research interests include digital culture, racialization processes, and the global circulation and appropriation of ethnic dance. She is also concerned with the discursive shift digitality brings to theories of embodied knowledge, identity, and performance. Email: belgica@berkeley.eduJess Dorrance is a writer, curator, and PhD student. She writes about the intersections between art, performance, and queer, feminist, and anti-racist politics. She is the co-editor, with Antke Engel, of Bossing Images: The Power of Images, Queer Art, and Politics (NGBK, 2012), which grew out of an eponymous series of experimental events. She is also a long-time team member of the Institute for Queer Theory, Berlin. Jess curates short film programs and organizes workshops in Berlin, Montreal, and elsewhere, most recently the workshop “Visibility and Violence in Late-Capitalist Digital Democracy” (QPIRG Concordia, 2015). She holds an MA in Art History, with an emphasis in Gender and Women’s Studies, from McGill University (2014), as well as a BA in Art History and English Literature from McGill University (2008). Email: jessica.dorrance@gmail.comNatalia Duong is a performance artist, choreographer, and writer, based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Her research interweaves performance studies, disability studies, and critical race theory to examine embodied transmissions of the herbicide Agent Orange across human and non-human bodies in Vietnam and the United States. Natalia is a company member of The Lonely Painter Project and Poetic Theater Productions. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology and Dance from Stanford University and a Masters degree in Performance Studies from New York University. She is currently a Ph.D. candidate at University of California, Berkeley in Performance Studies with a designated emphasis in Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies. Email: natalia.duong@gmail.comRandi Evans’ work and research explores the intersections of dance studies, cultural studies, curatorial practice, and social and community-based practices. She holds a BFA in dance from Cornish College of the Arts, MA in cultural studies from the University of Washington, and certificate in curatorial practice in performance from Wesleyan University. In addition to her academic background she has worked in community-based organizations in arts administration and as a teaching artist. Most recently she has been teaching courses on contemporary performance practices to first year students at the University of Washington Bothell. Email: randimariec@gmail.comThea Gold: B.A. Music and Electrical Engineering, UC-Berkeley; M.A. Interdisciplinary Arts, Tel Aviv University; Graduate work, Near Eastern Studies, UC-Berkeley. Ongoing interests in the fields of religion, queer studies, music, and disability studies.  Email: thea@berkeley.eduJulia Havard: B.A. History of Science, minor in Dance, Harvard University. Julia is interested in the embodiment of trauma and the effect of bodily memories on physical movement and gesture. She currently works at a health clinic educating young people in LGBTQ communities about the Affordable Care Act and wants to look more in depth at how barriers to affirming healthcare relate to institutionalized and interpersonal violence. Through her dance practice, she has been exploring reframing of personal and social history. Email: jhavard@berkeley.eduMartha Herrera-Lasso: MA in Theatre from the University of British Columbia (Vancouver) and a BA in Playwriting from the National University in Mexico City (UNAM). She has worked as a writer and developer for theatre and television in Mexico and Canada, and is currently the co-director of the New Play Reading Series at UC Berkeley. She is concerned with the practical and theoretical implications of bi and tri-national theater collaborations amongst Mexico, Canada and the United States, read through the politics of linguistic, cultural and aesthetic translation. Email: herreralassomartha@gmail.com Megan Hoetger: PhD candidate in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies with Designated Emphases in Critical Theory and Film. Hoetger’s dissertation, Rude & Playful Shadows: Kurt Kren and the Performances of Cinema, 1964-1989, tracks the development of transnational distribution networks for and communities of underground and experimental time-based art through the Cold War period. Her research has been supported by the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), the Getty Research Institute, and the Max Kade Foundation. In addition to her scholarship, Hoetger also works regularly as an organizer of time-based art events and has organized several screenings on the UC Berkeley campus, as well as performance events at artist run spaces across the Los Angeles area. She has worked as the graduate student coordinator for the Berkeley Center for New Media’s History and Theory of New Media lecture series (2013-15); and has co-organized working groups in contemporary art (2014-16) and sound studies (2015-16) on the UC Berkeley campus. For the 2017-18 academic year Hoetger will be organizing the UC Berkeley Critical Theory Program’s working group, entitled “Collaboration, Co-operatives, and Coalition-building.” Some of her writings on performance, technology, mediatization, and spectatorship have appeared in journal publications including e-misférica, Performance Research, and X-TRA: Contemporary Art Quarterly. In fall 2017 her writing will also appear in the D.A.P. book Double Issue, which brings together a collection of writings from/on the performance festival that accompanied the Getty Museum’s landmark 2012 Pacific Standard Time initiative. Email: mhoetger@berkeley.eduPaige Johnson: PhD Candidate in Performance Studies with a Designated Emphasis in Gender and Women’s Studies (UC Berkeley); B.A. Theatre and Cultural Anthropology, Columbia University; Mellon-Mays Fellow; Fulbright Fellow. Paige’s work sits at the convergence of performance studies, queer studies and Southeast Asian Studies. Currently working in Indonesia, Paige brings a cross-disciplinary intelligence as both a scholar and performer to her work with Male-to-Female trans communities known locally as Waria. Focusing on a large constellation of  performative practices, Paige explores how “Waria”—as an identity, point of identification, social signifier of difference, and node within transnational queer codes—manifests through various “genres” of performance enacted by Waria-identified subjects, seeking to understand Waria as both subject position and aesthetic demarcation. In addition to her own research Paige has directed a TDPS workshop production of The Maids  and currently co-leads the Color of New Media working group with Professor Gail de Kosnik as well as the Queer Theory in South and Southeast Asia working group with Darren Arquero.
pmj2103@gmail.comCaleb Luna: B.A., Anthropology and Women’s and Gender Studies, The University of Texas at Austin (2015). Caleb is a working class fat, brown, queer, living, writing and dancing in Oakland, California. Their work explores the intersections of fatness, desire, fetishism, white supremacy and colonialism from a queer of color lens. You can find their writing on Black Girl Dangerous, Everyday Feminism and The Body Is Not An Apology. ctluna@berkeley.eduChristian Nagler is a performer, writer and translator. He has performed with Anna Halprin, Isak Immanuel, Yuko Kaseki and Open Experiments Ensemble. His work has recently been presented at the Berkeley Art Museum, Headlands Center for the Arts, Southern Exposure, and the Kadist Foundation. His novel The Capitalist, is forthcoming in 2014. His writing can recently be found in Fillip, Six Lines of Flight (UC Press), Somatic Engagement (Chainlinks Books) Encyclopedia, Aufgabe, and Performance Research. He has translated works by the political economist Alberto Masferrer, as well as writings by the contemporary novelist Horacio Castellanos Moya and psychoanalytic theorist Heriberto Yépez. He currently teaches writing and new genres at the San Francisco Art Institute. Email:  christiannagler@gmail.comAparna Nambiar: BSc. Life Sciences, National University of Singapore; M.A. Theatre Studies, University of Amsterdam; M.A. International Performance Research, University of Warwick. Aparna is an Indian classical dancer and performance studies scholar based in Singapore. Her research thus far has examined the genesis and evolution of minority Indian performance practices in Singapore, and the ongoing negotiations of Singaporean identity that manifest performatively and corporeally. Her interests include diaspora studies, traditional performance practices in contemporary Asia and the interventions of global capital flows on Asian culture. Email: aparna.r.nambiar@gmail.comLyndsey Ogle: B.F.A. Acting, Northern Illinois University; M.A. Individualized Studies (Interdisciplinary Curation and Digital Culture), New York University.  Lyndsey is an interdisciplinary artist and curator exploring the intersections of cultural discourse, narrative and technology through performance, public engagement and online content. Her current research interests include socially engaged practice, social networks as performance, interdisciplinary discourse and identity-making within digital culture. Email: lyndseyogle@gmail.comToshi Pau: B.A. Asian & Middle Eastern Studies, the College of William and Mary  (2014); M.A. East Asian Studies, Duke University (2015). Scholar, actor, and dancer. Toshi’s critical research interests lie in analyses of race, gender, and queer theory in performance. His current projects focus on histories of sex, Asian and Asian-American sexual cultures and communities, sexual labor, and the education of sex. Through this work, Toshi hopes to destigmatize discussions of sex as social taboo and reimagine possibilities of sex as performative modes of liberation, freedom, and empowerment. Email: toshi.pau@berkeley.eduKimberly Richards is a recipient of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada Graduate Scholarship, the Edward Hildebrand Graduate Fellowship in Canadian Studies, and the Heather McCallum Award from the Canadian Association of Theatre Research. Her dissertation, “Crude Stages of the Anthropocene: Performance and Petro-Imperialism” examines oil frontiers as material and representational spaces constituted through practice, representation and acts of the imagination. She considers how performance practices, such as spectacles and festivals, socially construct and performatively produce oil frontiers, and how theatrical tactics at petro-protests work to resist the expansion of petro-imperialism. Her research interests include performance theory, petrocriticism, the energy and environmental humanities, postcolonial ecocriticism, and human rights. She holds a B.A. and M.A. in English from the University of Calgary. Email: krichar@berkeley.eduJT (Jennif(f)er Tamayo): BA Human Development, Fundamentals: Issues & Texts, University of Chicago (2005), MFA Creative Writing-Poetry, Louisiana State University (2010). Born in Bogotá, Jennif(f)er is Nancy’s daughter. She is a queer, latinx writer and performer whose research attends to (the performativity of) contemporary poetry readings, asking the questions: what knowledges does the voice hold that are distinct from language; if a body is a site of ancestral knowledges, how do the violent legacies of slavery and settler colonialism haunt contemporary poetry “readings”?  A former CantoMundo Fellow and Hemispheric Institute of Performance and Politics Emerge Fellow, Jenni(f)fer’s books include [Red Missed Aches] (Switchback, 2011), Poems are the Only Real Bodies (Bloof Books 2013) and YOU DA ONE (2014/15 reprint Noemi Books & Letras Latinas) and her writing has been published in Poetry magazine, Best American Experimental Poetry, Mandorla: Writing from the Americas, and  Angels of the Americlypse; An Anthology of New Latin@ Writing. Email:  j_tamayo@berkeley.eduTonika Sealy Thompson is a PhD student in Performance Studies who is concerned with Caribbean cultural and political thought, multilingual/hemispheric Black diaspora studies, Gender Womens and Sexuality studies and Afro Asian connections She grew up in Barbados and has been living and working globally as a curator, festival director and cultural consultant on projects in the Caribbean, Europe, Africa, and the Asia Pacific regions. She has served as artistic coordinator of the Africa Caribbean and Pacific Arts Festival, and is the founder of the Fish and Dragon Festival a platform for creative exchange between the Caribbean and China. Email: tonika_sealythompson@berkeley.edu  15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduSince inception of the program in 1998Graduates from the PhD in Performance Studies are hired in a great range of disciplines, from art history and literature to theatre, communications and Asian American studies.Anderson, Patrick
“So Much Wasted’: Violence Performed In Anorexia Nervosa, Staged Fasts, and Hunger Striking” SP05
UC San Diego, Associate Professor, Communications, Director of Critical Gender StudiesBayraktar, Nilgun
“Moving Images Against the Current: The Aesthetics and Geopolitics of (Im)mobility in Contemporary Europe” FL11
2011 UC Berkeley, R&C Lectureship
2012 Bogazici University in Istanbul, Turkey, Instructor, Humanities
2015 California College of the Arts, Assistant Professor, Visual StudiesBaron, Michelle
“Queering US Public Mourning Rituals: Funerals, Performance, and the Construction of Normativity” SU11
2011 Oberlin College,Visiting Assistant Professor
2012 Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Assistant Professor, Women’s StudiesBelmar, Sima
“Easier Said Than Done: Talking Identity in Late Twentieth-Century American Concert Dance: S15
2015 UC Berkeley, Lecturer, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance StudiesBoucai, Marc
“Narrating Normal: Arabs, Queers, Neoliberal Spectatorship” FL13
2014 Theatre Coordinator at AS220, Providence, RIBoyle, (Michael) Shane
“The Ambivalence of Resistance: West German Antiauthoritarian Performance after the Age of Affluence” FL12
Spring 2013 – Harvard University, Lecturer, College Writing Program
2013 Stanford University, Postdoctoral Lecturer in the Immersion in the Arts: Living in Culture Program
2014 Queen Mary, University of London, School of English and Drama, Lecturer in Drama, Theatre, and Performance Studies, Director of MA in Theatre and PerformanceBrain, Naomi
“Black Power of Hip Hop Dance: On Kinesthetic Politics” S15
2015 (On leave 2015-16) University of Washington, Bothell, Assistant Professor, Performance Studies
2015-2016 UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship, UC RiversideBurriss, Catherine
“Performing Theory: Gendered and Erotic Complications in Cinquecento Italian Comedies, and some English Reverberations” FL06
CSU Channel Islands, Associate Professor, Performing ArtsCappelli, Renu
“Inadmissible Presence: Objecthood, Spectacle, and the Theatricality of Race” FL07
2008-2011 Stanford University, Post-doctoral Scholar, Introduction to the Humanities
2013 UC San Diego, Lecturer, Critical Gender StudiesCase, Gretchen
“Medical Scarring and the Performance of Memory” FL05
Duke University, University Writing Program Fellow
Northwestern University, Adjunct Lecturer, Medical Humanities and Bioethics Program
2011 University of Utah School of Medicine, Assistant Professor, Division of Medical Ethics and HumanitiesCasey, Carrie Gaiser
“Ballet’s Feminisms: Genealogy and Gender in Twentieth-Century American Ballet History” FL09
St. Mary’s College of California, Adjunct Professor, Liberal Education for Arts Professionals programCrow, Heather
“POSSESSIONS: Animated Bodies in Mediated Performance” FL06
Texas Tech University, Assistant Professor of Interdisciplinary Arts, Fine Arts Doctoral ProgramDavis, Reid
“Sissy Warriors: Perversity, Performance, and the Unruly Child” FL06
St. Mary’s College, Adjunct Professor, Ethnic Studies and Performing ArtsDuffly, Catherine
“From Farm to Table to Stage: Performing Food Politics” FL11
2011 UC Berkeley, R&C Lecturer and California College of the Arts, Lecturer
2012 Reed College, Assistant Professor, Department of TheatreFerro-Murray, Ashley
“Choreography in the Digital Era: Dancing the Cultural Differences of Technology” SP16
2016 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, NY, Curator of Theater and Dance at the Experimental Media and Performing Arts Center (EMPAC)Fisek, Emine
“Incorporating Immigrants: Theatrical Aid Work and the Politics of Witnessing in France” SP10
Johns Hopkins University, Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Humanities, Krieger School of Arts and Science, German and Romance Languages and Literatures
2012 Bogazici University, Turkey, Associate Professor, Department of Western Languages and LiteratureFisher, Margaret
“Recovery of Ezra Pound’s Third Opera Collis O Heliconii: The Transmission of History Through Song” SP03
Second Evening Arts PublishingGough, Kathleen
“Bleeding Regions: Performance and Politics in the ‘Backwaters’ of the Atlantic” FL05
University of Glasgow, Lecturer, Department of Theatre, Film and Television Studies and Advisor of Studies, Arts College Academic and Student Administration
2014 University of Vermont, Assistant Professor and Resident Dramaturge,Theatre Department Hagstrom Stahl, Kristina
“Melancholy Traces: Performing the Work of Mourning” FL06
Postdoctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Lund University, Sweden and also teaches at the Stockholm Academy of Dramatic ArtsHoffmann, Beth
“Acting without Guarantees: The Politics of Form in Contemporary British Performance” FL08
George Mason University, Assistant Professor, English DepartmentJohung, Jennifer
“Replacements: From the Primordial Hut to the Digital Network” SP08
University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Associate Professor, Department of Art HistoryKokontis, Kate
“Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state” FL11
2011 New Orleans Center for Creative Arts, Academic Studio: Founding Faculty and Assistant Department Chair, Social StudiesLevin, Laura
“Performing World” SP05
York University, Associate Professor, Theatre Studies and Graduate Program in Communication and CultureLu, Joyce
“Dreaming in Other Languages: On the Performance of Autobiographical Narrative as Decolonizing Pedagogy” SP07
Pomona College, Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow
Claremont Colleges, Assistant Professor, Theatre and DanceMarshall, Caitlin
“Power in the Tongue’: Staging American Voice” SS16
2016-17 Postdoctoral position in Theater and Performance Studies at the University of MarylandMattingly, Kate
“Set in Motion: Dance Criticism and the Choreographic Apparatus ” S17
2017 University of Utah, School of Dance, Assistant ProfessorMcGonigal, Jane
“This Might be a Game: Ubiquitous Play Performance at the Turn of the Twenty-First Century” FL06
Institute for the Future, Palo Alto, CA, Director of Games Research and DevelopmentMcIvor, Charlotte
“The New Interculturalism: Race, Gender and Immigration in Post-Celtic Tiger Ireland” SP11
National University of Ireland, Galway, Lecturer, Department of English, Director of Postgraduate Studies in DramaNguyen, Khai Thu 
“Sensing Vietnam: Melodramas of Nation from Colonialism to Market Reform” SP10
University of California, Berkeley, James R. Gray R&C Lecturer, College of Letters and Science
University of California, Berkeley, UC Extension, Special Assistant to the Dean
2016 University of California, Berkeley, Associate Director, Consortium for Interdisciplinary ResearchPalacios, Joy Crosby
“Preaching for the Eyes: Priests, Actors, and Ceremonial Splendor in Early Modern France” SU12
2014 Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, Canada, Assistant Professor of Literature, Department of FrenchPrieur, Nina Billone
“In the System: Art, Prison, and the Performance of Social Welfare” FL10
Duke University, Assistant Professor, Theatre Studies
Georgetown University, Visiting Assistant Professor, Department of Performing ArtsRafferty, Kelly Ann
“Performing ARTs: Technologies of Participation and Reproduction from Body Art to Bio Art” SP10
Arizona State University, Assistant Professor of Performance Studies
2013: Independent artist, educator, and facilitator in Oakland, San Francisco, and Los AngelesRamos, Ivan
“Sonic Negations: Sound, Affect, and Unbelonging Between Mexico and the United States” S15
2015-2017 UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship, UC RiversideRastovac, Heather
“Performing (Trans)National Iranianness: The Choreographic Cartographies of Diasporic Iranian Dancers and Performance Artists” SS16
2016-2017 Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford University, DanceRicks, Omar
“On Jubilee: The Performance of Black Leadership in the Afterlife of Slavery” SP14Rivera, Takeo
“Minority Models: Masochism, Masculinity, and the Machine in Asian American Cultural Politics” SP17
2017 Boston University, Department of English, Assistant ProfessorScott, Ariel Osterweis
“Body Impossible: Dynamics of Race, Sexuality, and Virtuosity in the Dance of Desmond Richardson” FL11
Wayne State University Michigan, Assistant Professor of Dance
2014 Skidmore College, Dance Department, Visiting Scholar/Artist
2016 California Institute of the Arts, Assistant Professor, School of DanceSeetoo, Chia-Yi
“The Political Kinesthetics of Contemporary Dance: Taiwan in Transnational Perspective” Sp13
Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Shanghai Theatre AcademyShalson, Lara
“Endurance: Arts, Politics, and Performance” FL08
King’s College London, Lecturer, Theatre and Performance StudiesShankar, Karin
“Molecular Aesthetics: Contemporary Art and Performance in Delhi ” SS16
2016-17  Andrew W. Mellon Global Postdoctoral Fellow at Creative Time in NYCSherman, Stephanie
“(Dis)Plazas and (Dis)Placed Danzas: Space, Trauma, and Moving Bodies in Mexico City” F16
2017 Visiting Professor, Arts Department, Universidad de las Américas in Puebla, MexicoSizemore-Barber, April
“Prismatic Performances: Queer South African Identity and the Deconstruction of the Rainbow Nation” FL13
2014 Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Visiting Assistant Professor, Women’s Studies
2015 Postdoctoral Scholar Royal Holloway, University
2015-2018 Georgetown, Visiting Assistant Professor, Gender and Sexuality StudiesStufft, Monica
“Chorus Girl Collective: Early 20th Century American Performance Communities and Urban Networking” SP08
University of San Diego, Assistant Professor, Theatre ArtsTaylor, Joanne Stoddard 
“21st Century Zombies: New Media, Cinema, and Performance” FL11
Berkeley City College, Adjunct Faculty, Humanities
Diablo Valley College, Adjunct Faculty, Humanities
San Francisco State University, Adjunct Professor, BusinessWallin, Scott
“Madness in the Making: Psychosocial Disability and Theater” SP14
2014-15 UC Berkeley, Lecturer, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies
2015 Stanford University, Postdoctoral Lecturer in the Immersion in the Arts: Living in Culture Program
2016 UC Berkeley, Lecturer, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance StudiesWilliams, Joshua
“Don’t Show A Hyena How Well You Can Bite: Performance, Race and the Animal Subaltern in Eastern Africa” SP17
2016 Harvard College, Writing ProgramWoolf, Brandon
“Paradigmatic Stages: Performing Arts Policy in Post-Wall Berlin” SU14
2016 New York University, Visiting Assistant Professor, English DepartmentYapp, Hentyle
“Minor China: Affect, Performance, & Contemporary China in the Global” SP14
2014-15 Pomona College, Postdoctoral Appointment
2015 Pomona College, Assistant Professor
2016 New York University, Assistant Professor, Art and Public Policy15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduDEPARTMENT OF THEATER, DANCE, AND PERFORMANCE STUDIESGSI APPOINTMENT INFORMATIONIn the coming academic year, the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies hopes to make the following appointments. This projection is not a guarantee of the number of ASE positions that will be available or filled.The Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies abides by University non-discrimination in employment regulations. Within the limits imposed by law or University regulations, the University shall not discriminate against or harass any ASE on the basis of race, color, religion, marital status, national origin, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, medical condition, HIV status, status as a covered veteran, age, citizenship, political affiliation and union activity.IMPORTANTOur GSI appointments are generally filled by Performance Studies PhD students.  We do not have openings for students from other campus departments.  For Summer GSI appointments, priority is given first to 4th year Performance Studies PhD Candidates, then to 5th year students.Our ability to fund all of our students depends on the students’ commitments to the department and to our program.  By accepting the offer of funding and responding to our request for teaching preferences, you become an important part of how we educate our undergraduate students. We will provide you with training, support, and supervision to fulfill this important role and prepare for future careers.  At the same time, you are expected to participate fully in this reciprocal agreement, communicate proactively about your circumstances, and fulfill your teaching commitments.For more information about GSI appointments, please reference http://grad.berkeley.edu/financial/graduate-student-employment/.To be considered for any of the GSI positions listed below or others that may become available, Performance Studies students must respond to the Department Chair’s request for applications and complete the on-line form each year with information about teaching preferences, past experience, and pedagogy classes.   All GSIs must successfully complete the pedagogy class College Writing 375 prior to the first semester as a GSI.GSI APPOINTMENTS1.Theater 1A-1B. Performance: Writing and Research.   Three hours of class meeting per week. GSI designs syllabus for a course in reading and composition in connection with the study of dramatic literature; course sections are supervised by faculty coordinator. Course fulfills undergraduate reading and composition requirement. Duties include meeting all class meetings, designing and executing syllabus, assigning and grading writing assignments, quizzes, and exams.2.Theater 25AC. The Drama of American Cultures: An Introduction to Our Theater.  Three hours of class lecture per week plus discussion sections. GSI attends lectures and teaches two additional discussion sections (1 hour each). Course addresses issues of cultural identity through the study of diverse traditions of American theater. Duties include attending lecture, meeting section meetings, executing syllabus, assigning and grading writing assignments, quizzes, and exams.3.Theater 26. Introduction to Performance Studies.  Three hours of class meeting per week plus discussion sections. GSI attends lectures and teaches two additional discussion sections (1 hour each). Course raises issues of broad relevance to the fields of theater, dance, and performance studies. Applicants are expected to have a basic grounding in Western and non-Western theater and dance as well as a familiarity with different disciplinary traditions in performance theory. Duties include adapting basic syllabus; executing syllabus; developing, assigning and grading writing assignments, quizzes, and exams.4.Theater 52AC.  Dance in American Culture.  Three hours of class lecture per week plus discussion sections. GSI attends lectures and teaches two additional discussion sections (1 hour each). Course addresses issues of cultural identity through the study of diverse traditions of American dance. Duties include attending lecture, meeting section meetings, executing syllabus, assigning and grading writing assignments, quizzes, and exams.5.Dance technique classes – Theater 40, 141, 142, 143. Experienced graduate students who have completed the pedagogy class Theater 340, and whose skills are appropriate to our curricular needs, may occasionally be considered for teaching positions within our dance program.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduThe Graduate Group in Performance Studies is responsible for the Ph.D. program and is comprised of faculty with appointments in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies as well as faculty from a range of departments and disciplines with scholarly and teaching interests in the field.Brandi Wilkins Catanese, Associate Professor, Departments of African American Studies and Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. Stanford University; African-American Drama and Theater.Abigail De Kosnik, Associate Professor, Berkeley Center for New Media and Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. Northwestern University; Technology and Performance; Artistic Appropriation and Remix; Ethnicity, Gender, and Digital Culture; Cultural Studies; Subcultures and Fan Cultures; Marxism and Post-Structuralism.SanSan Kwan, Associate Professor, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies: Ph.D. New York University; Critical Dance Studies; Transnational Asian American Studies; Cultural Geography; Theories of Space and Kinesthesia, Interculturalism, Modern Dance, Ballet, and Yoga.Julia Fawcett, Assistant Professor, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. Yale University; Restoration and 18th Century Theater and Performance, Performance Historiography, Intersections Between Literature and Performance, Autobiographical Performance, Urban Space, Celebrity, Gender, and Disability Studies.Peter Glazer, Associate Professor, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. Northwestern University; Directing; Adaptation; Performance Theory; 20th century American Theater; Commemorative Performance.Mark Griffith, Professor, Departments of Classics and Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. Cambridge University; Classical drama and performance; Greek and Latin literature.Shannon Jackson, Professor, Departments of Rhetoric and Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. Northwestern University; Performance Studies; Contemporary theater; American cultural history and Performance Historiography; Adaptation.Angela Marino,  Assistant Professor, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D., New York University; politics and performance in the Americas; Latin/o American performance and dramatic literature; popular fiesta and carnival theory.Trinh Minh-ha, Professor, Department of Gender and Women’s Studies; Feminist Theory; Film Theory and production; Comparative Literary and Art Theory; Cultural Politics; Third World Arts and Politics.Laura E. Pérez, Associate Professor, Department of Ethnic Studies; Ph.D. Harvard University; Post-1965 U.S. Latina/o Visual, Performance, and Literary Arts; Feminist, “Minority,” Post-Colonial, and Cultural Studies theories.Juana Maria Rodriguez, Professor, Department of Ethnic Studies; Ph.D. UC Berkeley; Queer Theory and Cultural Activism; Latin@ Popular Cultures; Performance Studies; Critical Race Theory; Sex and Sexuality Studies; Technology and Media Arts.Miryam Sas, Professor, Departments of Comparative Literature and Film Studies; Ph.D. Yale University; 20th century poetry; Japanese Experimental Theater and Dance; Memory and Trauma; Mass Media and Cultural Studies; Film.Mary Ann Smart, Professor, Department of Music; Ph.D. Cornell University; opera;  music and gender; music and politics; historical acting and staging; live performance and technology in contemporary opera.Shannon Steen, Associate Professor, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. Stanford University; performance and critical race studies (especially the intersection of African and Asian American histories), American Studies, globalization and American urban development, and post/modernisms.Sophie Volpp, Associate Professor, Departments of Comparative Literature and East Asian Languages and Cultures; Ph.D. Harvard University; classical Chinese performance, Chinese literature of the seventeenth through nineteenth centuries, history of performance, gender theory, the history of sexuality, and the representation of material culture.Alexei Yurchak, Associate Professor, Department of Anthropology; Ph.D. Duke University; theories of discourse, power and performance, the politics of aesthetics, irony and ideology, contemporary media, Russian informal art, Soviet state socialism and postsocialism, cities and urban space.Paola Bacchetta, Associate Professor, Department of Gender and Women’s Studies; Ph.D. in Sociology from The Sorbonne, Paris; transnational feminist and queer theories; inseparabilities of gender, sexuality, “race”-racism, postcoloniality; Hindu nationalism; global political conflict; feminist and queer of color, and right wing movement discourses and practices in the U.S., India  and France; transnational feminist and queer alliances.Charles Briggs, Alan Dundes Distinguished Professor in Folklore, Department of Anthropology; Ph.D. University of Chicago; performing the diseased body and its therapeutic intervention, biomedical and vernacular; theorizing relations between narrative and violence; mediatization and its reified objects; creating modern subjects by creating their “traditional” Others.Judith Butler, Professor, Department of Comparative Literature and Program of Critical Theory; Ph.D. Yale University; performance and identity; gender and sexual politics; human rights; anti-war politics; messianic gestures in Kafka and Benjamin; philosophical fictions in Freud’s work; gender in translation.Joe Goode, Professor, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; BFA, Virginia Commonwealth University; choreography and interdisciplinary performance.Jocelyne Guilbault, Professor, Department of Music; Ph.D. University of Michigan; Ethnomusicology; Caribbean Musics (popular and traditional); Creolization; Power; Cultural Politics; Nationalism; Diaspora.Andrew Jones, Professor, Department of East Asian Languages & Cultures; Ph.D. UC Berkeley; Children’s Literature; Chinese Popular Music; East Asian Languages and Cultures; Literary Translation; Media Technology; Modern Chinese Fiction; Sonic Culture.Anton Kaes, Professor, Departments of German and Film Studies; Ph.D. Stanford University; modern German theater (Expressionism, Brecht; and the theater of the 1920s); postmodernist theater and film; the relationship between theater and film; theory of film, Critical Theory, and Cultural Studies.John Lie, Professor, Department of Sociology and Center for Korean Studies; Ph.D. Harvard University; social theory, political economy, Korean diaspora.Saba Mahmood, Associate Professor, Department of Anthropology; Ph.D. Stanford University; Anthropology of Subject Formation, Liberalism, and Secular Modernity; Feminist and Poststructuralist Theory; Religion and Politics; Islam, the Middle East, and South Asia.Susan Schweik, Professor, Department of English; Ph.D. Yale University; Disability Studies; Poetry; 20th-Century American Literature; 19th-Century American literature; Cultural Studies; Gender & Sexuality Studies; Race and Ethnicity.RETIRED FACULTY:Vasudha Dalmia, Professor, Department of South and South East Asian Studies; Ph.D. Jawaharlal Nehru University; Hindi Drama and other Indian Theater traditions; Brecht.Dru Dougherty, Professor, Department of Spanish and Portuguese; Ph.D. Harvard University; Spanish drama, especially of the early 20th century.Mel Gordon, Professor, Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; Ph.D. New York University; Modern and Contemporary European Theater; Popular entertainment.Linda Williams, Professor, Departments of Film Studies and Rhetoric; Ph.D. University of Colorado; Popular Moving-Image Genres (Pornography, Melodrama, and “Body Genres” of all sorts); Eastern and Western Forms of Melodrama; Film Theory.Core Faculty: 
 Core Faculty may serve as Chair, Co-Chair, or Additional Member on student committees but not as Academic Senate Representative. In addition, they may serve periodically on the Executive Committee (which sets policy, conducts admissions, and reviews student progress). Core Faculty regularly attend Performance Studies program events–the welcoming reception, Performance Practicum performances, the 5th year lectures. They constitute the voting faculty of the Group, and are recommended to the Graduate Dean for appointment to the Graduate Group in Performance Studies.Affiliated Faculty: 
Affiliated Faculty may serve on student committees as the Academic Senate Representative or as an Additional Member, but may not chair a committee. They are invited to all Graduate Group events. 15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduPerformance Studies Doctoral ProgramWith whom do I speak with questions about the program?
You may contact Robin Davidson, head of Graduate Student Services. You can reach her at: 510-664-7613 (AM only) or performancestudies@berkeley.eduHow do I know if I have to take the TOEFL?
Please read the information on the Graduate Division web site and application about admission requirements.How important are GRE scores?
We do not consider GRE scores a primary indicator of success in a doctoral program, but we do take them into consideration. GREs are also reported when we nominate students for prestigious campus fellowships, so we do consider that factor during the admissions process. We don’t have a minimum score, but there are no exceptions or waivers for the GRE. Please note, scores must not be more than 5 years old as they are only reported for 5 years after taking the test. Specific information can be found on the GRE website.How important are the writing samples?
Both personal statements and the Critical Writing Sample are very important. This is the place where the admissions committee will be best able to gauge a candidate’s readiness for doctoral research. Candidates should choose the critical writing sample that best exemplifies their critical capacities as theorists, historians, ethnographers, and/or as cultural critics. Ideally, the writing sample will be in dialogue with a candidate’s statement of research interests, though we understand that some candidates’ “best” writing samples might be somewhat outside declared research interests. Candidates who have been away from academia for a while are encouraged to take the time to develop a new or revised well-researched and critically sophisticated writing sample. While the personal statements are fairly brief, the critical writing samples should ideally be around 15 to 20 pages.How important are letters of recommendation?
The letters of recommendation are very important. The letters should speak as best as possible to a candidate’s readiness for and interest in doctoral research. While one of three letters might speak to a candidate’s skills as an artist, administrator, or activist, at least two letters should speak knowledgeably about the candidate’s abilities as a researcher and writer.What kind of financial package is offered to doctoral students in performance studies?
We offer each student a five-year package of tuition support and stipend. The details of each package vary somewhat depending upon the availability of external campus funding and on the mix of fellowship and teaching responsibilities offered a student in any given year. However, we do not admit any student unless we can guarantee him or her a five-year package.Can any requirements be waived through work completed in my Masters program?
Not usually. The doctoral program in performance studies is rigorous and very specific to UC Berkeley. Many students enter our program with a Masters degree, however, and we find that such students are particularly adept in composing a specialized research curriculum and often take less time to finish their dissertations at the end of the program.Do you encourage students to take courses in departments outside of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies?
Seminar experiences outside of the department are essential to the performance studies doctoral program at Berkeley. While the first year is largely devoted to program requirements in theory (201a/201b), methods (202), theory/practice experiments (203), and professional development (200a/200b), the rest of a student’s coursework is carefully selected from an array of courses offered on the Berkeley campus. Students meet regularly with the Head Graduate Advisor to craft a curriculum that best suits the research interests of the individual students, each of whom will be pursuing a research agenda that varies historically, regionally, theoretically, artistically, politically.What is the role of the Graduate Group faculty in Performance Studies?
The Graduate Group in Performance Studies is composed of scholarly faculty from within TDPS as well as a network of faculty whose work engages issues of performance from a variety of disciplinary angles. Graduate Group faculty rotate in two and three-year cycles onto the Executive Committee which is responsible for graduate admissions, curriculum decisions, and graduate student reviews. Graduate Group “affiliate” members regularly admit PS students into their courses and serve on their orals and dissertation committees. Graduate Group “core” members serve on the Executive Committee and can also serve as dissertation directors.Can I apply to the doctoral program if I have a BFA?
Some students are justifiably concerned that their undergraduate degree has not prepared them for doctoral research. In those cases, we encourage candidates to take interim steps through coursework or other kinds of intellectual affiliation to develop skills as a researcher and theorist.Can I apply to the doctoral program if my Bachelor’s degree is in a field other than Theater, Drama, Dance or Performance Studies?
Performance studies is a diverse and interdisciplinary field with scholarship representing a range of specialties in the humanities and social sciences, as well as occasionally the sciences. In light of this, a variety of undergraduate degrees are acceptable as long as the admissions statement includes a clear intention to pursue performance studies at the graduate level.Can I pursue a doctorate while living outside of the San Francisco Bay Area?
Because students take courses on campus for the first three years and teach regularly in the program, it is not possible to pursue our doctoral program on a commuter basis. In the summers and in the fourth or fifth years, students whose research requires national or international travel are certainly allowed to relocate for an appropriate period of time.Is there financial support for conference or research travel?
Students can receive Graduate Division support for two conferences during their time in our program and we can then help finance two or three additional conference trips.  The department also offers partial support for travel to facilitate doctoral research, usually after year 2 and again after years 4 or 5; allocations are made every year and depend upon the number of requests received. There are also other sources for travel funds throughout the campus as well as a variety of fellowship opportunities to support lengthier periods of research.Is it possible to pursue scholarly research in dance at UC Berkeley?
Yes. Dance Studies is an important aspect of our program and we currently have several students in residence who work in this field. In addition, several Graduate Group members publish on dance in the context of larger scholarly projects in contemporary performance, transnational performance, and popular, mass, or vernacular performance forms. Additionally, our choreographers are active in promoting dance studies, and some are very committed members of our Dance Studies Working Group, a multi-disciplinary scholarly group composed of faculty and graduate students in PS, Rhetoric, Art History, Digital Art, English, Anthropology, and more.What is the role of production in the performance studies doctoral program?
The doctorate program is designed to enable graduate students to become competitive in an academic job market, and we encourage students to participate in production to the degree that it advances their profiles as emerging scholars in performance studies. Our doctoral program is not an M.F.A. program. However, graduate students whose performance work coincides with their research have a variety of opportunities to cultivate their skills as artists, from the Performance Practicum class to courses in directing and performance art. After the first year, students can also apply to direct a Workshop production or to choreograph a piece for our Berkeley Dance Project.How can I contact a graduate faculty member?
The profiles, research interests, and contact information of our faculty are available on the website. After studying their biographies and research information, you can contact those whose interests are closest to yours. You can also contact the Head Graduate Advisor in Performance Studies, Professor Shannon Steen, steen21@berkeley.edu.Can I visit a seminar?
Visiting a seminar is something that occurs at the discretion of the professor; you can feel free to contact a professor about the possibility of visiting his or her course. Our course schedule is posted on the website.Can I speak with any current students in the program?
The profiles and research interests of our current graduate students are posted on our department website, along with their emails. After perusing their biographies, you can contact students, especially those whose interests are closest to yours.Is it possible for international students to take graduate courses at Berkeley?
International students are welcome to apply directly to the doctoral program. Those international students who wish to pursue graduate study at Berkeley for a limited time may apply through a number of programs:Education Abroad Program (EAP) is an international educational program of the University of California that provides academic exchanges for one or two semesters.
http://eap.ucop.eduAMIDEAST Fulbright, America-Mideast Educational and Training Services, Inc., http://www.amideast.orgGerman and Portuguese Fulbright Commissions
http://www.Fulbright.de
http://www.ccla.ptInstitute for International Education Fulbright
http://www.iie.orgIs it possible for domestic students to take graduate courses at Berkeley?
Domestic students who want to undertake graduate study without working for a higher degree may apply for course-work-only status. They must, however, meet the same admission requirements as degree candidates, have a definite scholarly or professional purpose in applying, and be admitted to a regularly established major field of study. There is no limited or unclassified status available to graduate students. Course-work-only students do not qualify for fellowship consideration or for academic appointment as a Graduate Student Instructor and can be accommodated only if a department is willing to include them in its enrollment target. There is a maximum of two semesters of study. Admission to course-work-only status precludes all future admission to any degree program at UC Berkeley. Please see information on this website about graduate admission and the link to the application itself on the Graduate Division website.Current graduate students from any UC campus, Stanford University, CSU East Bay, San Francisco State University, Mills College or Sonoma State University may participate in an Intercampus Exchange Program. Check with your home campus for details. For those attending universities other than those mentioned above, check with your home campus to see if any kind of exchange may be arranged.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduIn the past decades, graduate study in the field of performance studies has undergone an energetic renovation, and “performance” itself has become critical to scholarship and research across the humanities. At the same time, this disciplinary ferment has demanded a much higher degree of specialization and of scholarly rigor from Ph.D. candidates seeking academic careers at the college and university level. The Graduate Group Ph.D. in Performance Studies at Berkeley is at the cutting edge of this epistemic shift. Centered in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, it is composed of an unrivaled faculty drawn from across the arts, humanities, and social sciences. Doctoral students have the opportunity to engage in performance activities that complement dissertation research, which itself ranges across the contemporary horizon of performance studies, as shown by the breadth of dissertation topics and placement information on this web site.The Graduate Group in Performance Studies at UC Berkeley provides an interdisciplinary and individually crafted curriculum directed at advanced studies in the literatures, performances, cultural contexts, and theories of performance throughout the world. Based in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, the Ph.D. program at once takes advantage of Berkeley’s distinguished history in the field of drama and theater studies, and opens out to a wider interrogation of the disciplines and methodologies of performance studies. The program is administered by the Graduate Group in Performance Studies, comprised of faculty from a wide range of related departments. Students in the Ph.D. program conduct research in a diverse array of interdisciplinary methodologies, on projects spanning the fields of theater, dance, and performance studies.The Ph.D. in Performance Studies is designed as a five-year program (10 semesters). It offers core courses, but no predetermined areas of emphasis. Each student determines an individual research agenda within the broader field of performance studies, using faculty resources to develop both a clear field specialization and a sense of interdisciplinary innovation.Contents:
Requirements Overview
Core Colloquia
Core Seminars
PS Electives
Additional Electives
Pedagogy Courses
Foreign Language
Performance Practice OpportunitiesIn their first 5 semesters of study, students are required to enroll in at least 12 units each semester and to complete successfully a minimum of 12 courses and the Colloquia.  In the 6th through 10th semesters, students will devote their time primarily to independent research for the dissertation. All courses must be taken for letter grades, you must earn at least a B in each, and any Incomplete grades must be made-up as soon as possible.  All Incompletes must be removed prior to applying for the QE exam in the 6th semester.The following is an overview of requirements to be fulfilled during the student’s first 5 semesters of study. Each section is described in greater detail below.CORE COLLOQUIA – 3 courses (2 units each) – to be taken in the 1st and 2nd years in the programa.  200A Introductory Colloquium – 1st Fall in the program
b.  200B Research Colloquium – 1st Spring in the program
c.  200B Research Colloquium – repeated in the 2nd Spring in the programCORE SEMINARS – 4 courses (4 units each) – to be taken in the first and second years in the programa.  201A Foundations in Performance Theory – 1st Fall
b.  201B Current Topics in Performance Theory – 1st Spring
c.  202    Methodologies in Performance Studies – offered every other Spring: 2018, 2020, etc
d.  203   Performance Practicum:  Bodies, Space, and Time  – offered every other Fall: 2018, 2020. etcPERFORMANCE STUDIES ELECTIVES – 2 TDPS courses (4 units each) – to be taken in the first 5 semesters in the programComplete at least 2 graduate seminars (200 level) offered by the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.  All electives must be discussed with the Head Graduate Advisor and approved before the start of each semester.ADDITIONAL ELECTIVES – 6 courses (4 units each) – to be taken in the first 5 semesters in the programComplete at least 6 additional graduate seminars (200 level) offered by any department at UC Berkeley, may include seminars offer by TDPS.  All electives must be discussed with the Head Graduate Advisor and approved before the start of each semester.PEDAGOGY COURSE – to be completed prior to your first year as a GSITo prepare for appointment as a Graduate Student Instructor (GSI), students are required to take a 300-level pedagogy course for Reading and Composition, usually College Writing 375.  This course is only offered on an S/U basis, so no letter grade is needed.  It is usually just offered in Fall semesters and you will need to take it in your first year if you will be a GSI in your second.FOREIGN LANGUAGEPass a language exam, usually in Fall of the first year, or take the needed language class(es).Theater 200A – Introductory Colloquium on Interdisciplinary Research in Performance Studies: 2 units.
This course is designed to introduce graduate students to the research resources of the University, to the methodologies and research interests of the faculty affiliated with the Ph.D. program, to the demands of a professional academic career, and to trends and developments in theater, dance, and performance studies. Offered Fall semester.Theater 200B – Research Colloquium (for both first and second year students): 2 units.
This course is designed to provide an opportunity for graduate students to work with one another to advance their individual research projects and present their ongoing work. Offered Spring semester.Theater 201A – Foundations in Performance Theory: 4 units. 
Part one of a two-semester core sequence on performance theory, required of first-year Performance Studies PhD students. This course focuses on the foundations of Performance Studies as a field, with special emphasis on its key philosophical and disciplinary antecedents. Topics will include the emergence of performance studies from the confluence of theater and literary studies, anthropology, art history, sociology, and cultural studies, and will include readings on central theoretical concepts such as performativity, the performance of everyday life, and the interventions of the 1990s regarding the role of performance in the formation of race, gender, sexuality, national identity, colonialism and more. Offered Fall semester.Theater 201B – Current Topics in Performance Theory: 4 units.
Part two of a two-semester core sequence on performance theory, required of first-year Performance Studies PhD students. This course will explore prominent contemporary debates in Performance Studies, roughly from the year 2000 to the present. Precise topics will vary by instructor, but may include theoretical investigations in corporeality, digital cultures, transnationalism/globalization, performance and economics, as well as ongoing disciplinary debates regarding race, nationality, gender and sexuality, and on the nature and social role of performance more generally. Prerequisites: 201A or consent of instructor. Offered Spring semester.Theater 202 – Methodologies in Performance Studies: 4 units.
The study of different approaches and contemporary methodologies for analyzing performances of various kinds within their cultural and historical context. Specific methodologies can include archival research, field methods, etc. The specific focus in any one course is contingent upon the focus of the instructor.  With prior HGA approval, this course may sometimes be repeated for credit with a different professor/methodology and then used as an Elective. Offered in Spring semester of even years = 2018, 2020, etc.Theater 203 – Performance Practicum: Bodies, Space, and Time: 4 units.
Students in this course will engage in performance practice as: epistemology, methodology, and mode of research; explore the relationship between bodies, spaces, and temporality as a fundamental aspect of performance; and understand “performance as research” in Performance Studies as a field. Offered in Fall semester of even years = 2018, 2020, etc.8 required, at least 2 from the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.  Students in their 1st, 2nd, and 3rd years will meet with the Head Graduate Advisor prior to the start of each semester to discuss academic progress and receive approval for appropriate electives.  Electives are here defined as graduate seminars or upper-division undergraduate courses that are taught at UC Berkeley and are recommended and approved by the Head Graduate Adviser for the curriculum of the individual student. In order for upper-division undergrad courses (no more than 3) to be approved as electives, both the Professor and the Head Graduate Advisor must approve a plan to do additional work at the graduate level. Students may also take graduate Special or Independent Study courses (for example: Theater 299) as electives, and these courses may be geared toward the preparation of examination fields; however, all Special or Independent Study courses to be used as electives must include a formal seminar paper and must be pre-approved by the Head Graduate Advisor.  Please use this form.Performance Studies graduate students may sometimes earn 1 or 2 two elective credits for being the primary leader of a performance piece in the TDPS season, for example directing or co-directing a workshop production or being the lead choreographer of a dance in the Berkeley Dance Project (BDP). In all cases, the Head Graduate Adviser must review and approve in advance.  Other forms of participation such as serving as assistant director, dramaturge, contributing choreographer, designer, dancer, or actor do not automatically receive elective credit. In these instances, graduate students may supplement participation with a critical or historical essay in conjunction with the piece, or develop another adjacent project that advances the graduate student’s research and artistic profile. Upon approval of this supplementary work by the Head Graduate Advisor, students may receive elective credit for serving in these roles.To prepare for appointment as a Graduate Student Instructor (GSI), students are required to take a 300-level pedagogy course for Reading and Composition. Students normally fulfill this requirement by taking College Writing 375 in the fall semester of the 1st year (this course is not usually offered in the spring).   Though taking CW375 during the first semester as a GSI is allowed by Grad Division, we have found it much more valuable and productive for students to complete the course prior to teaching for the first time and require our GSIs to do so.  For those 1st-year students who have stipend support for their second year (and therefore won’t teach until the third year), the pedagogy course may be taken during the fall semester of the 2nd year. Students concerned about scheduling conflicts with CW375 should speak with Robin Davidson, GSAO, about possible alternatives. GSIs for TDPS also enroll each semester in Theater 300 (4 units, S/U) with their teaching supervisor. In addition, all students interested in dance pedagogy are encouraged to take Theater 340, when available, as part of their own professional development. Graduate students don’t usually teach dance courses for TDPS except as a student-led Theater 98, but Theater 340 “Pedagogy: Movement Based Courses” is required in order to be considered should there be an opening in our curriculum.  This class is not offered every year.Much of the research material, both primary and secondary, in the field of performance studies is available only in foreign languages; this is obviously the case for the drama traditions of foreign lands, but is true as well for materials pertaining to areas such as performance theory. Students, therefore, will be required to demonstrate, in any one foreign language, a level of reading proficiency sufficient for carrying out in-depth research.Students must satisfy the Foreign Language Requirement PRIOR to taking the QE exam and may do so either by passing a language exam designed by the appropriate language department or by completing an approved graduate or upper-division UC Berkeley foreign language course with a grade of “B” or better.Conduct of the examination:Normally two attempts are permitted at any of the language examinations. Permission for a third attempt, and for further enrollment in the graduate program, may be granted by the Executive Committee of the Ph.D. program if the student submits satisfactory evidence of further study in the language. Any student interested in pursuing production work in the form of directing or choreographing as part of our production curriculum must first secure the approval of the Head Graduate Advisor (and the dissertation advisor if the student is ABD) before submitting any proposals. Because such production work requires a very significant time commitment, it is supported by the program only when the student is exceeding expectations in terms of progress towards the Ph.D. degree and when the proposed project bears a direct relationship to the specific program of study.  The advisor(s) will take into account the applicant’s whole performance in the program, including outcomes of annual reviews, QE reports, and other documented evidence of their academic performance in the program. Endorsement of the project by the advisor(s) is a crucial part of the assessment process, but not definitive. The process of evaluation should be consultative with the student and advisor(s), as well as potentially other faculty and staff. The process should be as transparent and constructive as possible, so that no matter what the outcome, the evaluation itself can be helpful for the student in terms of achieving his/her degree objectives.All graduate students wishing to serve as director or choreographer must then solicit the participation of a TDPS faculty production advisor. We require that you discuss your project with your advisor to assist you in the development of the proposal prior to its submission and explain that the advisor is expected to be involved in the production process.  Please note that the faculty advisor will act as the instructor of record for any undergraduates enrolled in the project.Additionally, in preparation for a Berkeley Dance Project (BDP) proposal, completion of an undergraduate choreography (146A or 146B) course is required.  For a Workshop, coursework in Directing (162 or 163) is preferred but not required.Projects may be undertaken in either the Fall or Spring semester; however, due to scheduling, project proposals must usually be submitted in early March of the prior academic year, much sooner for BDP proposals.  Please see Robin Davidson for an application and information about deadlines.  Production and practice opportunities fall into two categories:Workshops – Performance focused, minimal technical and staff support. Undergraduates may be cast. Three weeks of rehearsal on weekdays, 20 hours per week, one day of prep in the space, two performances, Wednesday and Thursday at 7PM. Performed content should run under one hour. There are 2 slots per semester, for which graduate students and undergraduates may apply the prior spring.Berkeley Dance Project – Graduate students with significant training and experience in choreography may be eligible to seek participation in Berkeley Dance Project (BDP). Interested students should seek guidance from the HGA and the Chair of the Production Committee.  Note that programming for BDP requires a minimum of 24 months advanced application.
Preparation for careers in university teaching and research will include:1. Opportunities for Graduate Student Instructor (GSI) teaching, which will take place in each instance under the guidance of a faculty member who will provide the student with appropriate preparation, observation, and consultation as a 300-level course. GSIs complete a pedagogy course prior to teaching and then take a 300-level course each time they teach.  Please see Graduate Student Employment for additional information.2. Opportunities for research assistantships, which will involve the student in a scholarly project on which a chosen Research Mentor is working. These assistantships will provide the student with “hands-on” training in the conduct of professional scholarship and offer unique opportunities to participate in research conducted at the highest scholarly level.
Reporting on one’s research progress is a routine aspect of academic life for all professors. The Graduate Program in Performance Studies seeks to cultivate this skill early in the training process. Not only can such reports enhance the research process by prompting a scholar to articulate and refine an emerging vision, but these reports also provide faculty supervisors a focused opportunity to assess student development and to provide feedback and advice. The Ph.D. in Performance Studies at UC Berkeley attributes its highly successful completion and placement rate in part to a long-standing tradition of having students submit annual reports. In the first and second years of study, students submit in the spring semester a narrative report about developing research interests and progress to date. Colloquium (Theater 200B) in the spring semester is dedicated in part to the composition of these reports. Students who have advanced to candidacy also submit an annual report, as described below.First Year Students: (Due by noon on the Thursday prior to Spring Break) During the spring semester of the first year of study, each student will present the Head Graduate Advisor with a paper written in a graduate seminar at Berkeley and a brief statement of academic progress. This statement (no more than 5 pages, single spaced) should: a) describe how the student has fared in the course of the current year, b) begin to define an area of research, and c) articulate plans to develop that research into a dissertation specialization during the second year, identifying potential fields of specialization.Second Year Students: (Due by noon on the Thursday prior to Spring Break) During the spring semester, each second year student will provide the Head Graduate Advisor with a somewhat longer statement (6-8 pages, single spaced ) that identifies his/her progress toward the dissertation. The student should identify: a) the principal field of research, and perhaps major books/studies in the field; b) the specific project the student is thinking about and what research methods are likely be required; c) possible areas of specialization for the qualifying examination; d) a possible dissertation director and committee members, to the extent possible at this time; and e) discuss specific plans for the following year. This is not intended to be a dissertation prospectus. However, second year reports are intended to help ensure the student will be ready to craft a dissertation prospectus the following year. Sketching out a possible trajectory for the dissertation project is an important threshold and a crucial preliminary step towards formulating the 3rd year exams.  Articulating a project for the first time can feel somewhat artificial, even daunting. That’s natural. A bit like the experience of an actor going ‘off book’ for the first time. Consider this report a rehearsal, and as with any production, there will be many, many, more rehearsals to follow.These reports are due by noon on the Thursday before Spring Break.  Please save in Drive and share with Robin Davidson, making sure to send the email notification.  The Executive Committee will then use these reports and any supporting material in the student’s file to conduct a review. The committee will make specific recommendations to the Head Graduate Advisor who will convey this information to the student in writing as well as in a meeting.In the fall semester of each year, all students who have advanced to candidacy will complete a brief report on the status of their research, including a summary of the dissertation research and writing completed to date, a plan and schedule for completion, and a list of recent professional accomplishments such as conference presentations, publications, and awards or grants received. The report is quite different from first and second year reports, in as much as it is more akin to a curriculum vitae of the past year’s accomplishments rather than a narrative of evolving research.  Please use the Doctoral Candidacy Review (former Academic Progress Report) provided by the Graduate Division on your CalCentral page.In order to make this process as meaningful as possible, the student should prepare a first draft of the report by the end of the fall semester and then consult with the Dissertation Director and at least one other committee member, editing the document as necessary and submitting it through the on-line process to the Dissertation Director by Feb 1. Please note that after answering the questions in the Doctoral Candidacy Review, the student must click Submit and then notify the Dissertation Director that the report is ready for comment. The Dissertation Director will then consult with other committee members, note the name of the member(s) with whom the student has met, add his/her response to the on-line document, and click Submit to send the form to the Graduate Division by the end of February. The student will prepare a response to the faculty comments and save both the full report and follow-up response in Drive, sharing the file with Robin Davidson and clicking yes to send the email notification. This is due by noon on the Thursday prior to Spring Break. The Executive Committee will meet to discuss progress and the HGA will prepare written feedback for each student. While the Executive Committee will defer to the Dissertation Chair to monitor and comment upon the content of the dissertation, the Executive Committee will comment on: a) timely progress towards completion, and b) ensuring that candidates are developing the right profile for successful job placement. Are the timelines for completion feasible and has there been appropriate progress since the last report was filed? If a report were to be deemed unsatisfactory, the Head Graduate Advisor would immediately consult with the student’s Dissertation Chair and/or Committee, making sure lines of communication are open. Faculty are committed to working collaboratively to help each student achieve his/her goals.Although reviews are intended to monitor and support each student’s progress, it is the responsibility of the faculty to recognize when students are not making adequate progress toward the degree and to act accordingly, either by recommending an alternate agenda, or by initiating the procedure to place the student on Academic Probation as described in the Guide to Graduate Policy.The Graduate Group views the comprehensive Qualifying Examination not as a one-time hurdle, but as the penultimate step of an extended process of deliberation and consultation, the ultimate purpose of which is the student’s successful completion of her/his dissertation.1. By the end of her/his second year, the student will have identified three areas of concentration that she/he should master for the Qualifying Examination, usually in consultation with several members of the faculty. These areas will be identified to the Executive Committee as part of the second-year review process. The student will be encouraged to include one area (e.g. anthropology, history, music, and so on) that falls outside traditional theater/dance/performance studies. The student is encouraged to have identified a potential dissertation director and at least one other potential Dissertation Committee member at the time of the second year review, with the understanding that the fields may undergo significant revision or change in the course of the third year.The Qualifying Examination committee which administers the written and oral exams is comprised of four members; at least two must be Core members of the Graduate Group in Performance Studies (one of whom will be the QE Chair, at least one of these two must be from TDPS) and at least 1 member, the Academic Senate Representative (formerly “outside member”), must be from outside the Graduate Group (but still a member of the UCB Academic Senate) or be an Affiliated Graduate Group member. Customarily, one of the Core members of the exam committee will later serve as the Dissertation Director and this person may not also serve as the QE Chair. (The membership of the Dissertation Committee is not restricted to the members of the Qualifying Examination committee. A student may wish to form a Dissertation Committee that includes a member or members who were not part of the Qualifying Examination committee, but the Dissertation Committee must also always have a “majority” of members (2/3, 2/4 or 3/5) from TDPS or the Core group.)  The QE Chair does not usually direct one of the exam fields, but serves in a more administrative role.2. In consultation with the potential Dissertation Director and QE committee members, the student will develop reading lists in three concentrations; typically, three committee members oversee the student’s development of the three reading lists and evaluate his/her performance on that part of the examination; in some cases, field exams may be co-chaired. Faculty members may, as part of the student’s preparation, invite the student to write a brief statement outlining the field, or a “review of the literature” statement, or in other ways (regular meetings, reading journal, etc.) assist the student in developing a self-conscious mastery of the field of concentration. The potential dissertation chair may, of course, be the examiner in one of these fields.  The finalized reading lists should be the result of a longer process of reading and writing throughout the year (rather than the start of a process of reading and writing). By enforcing clarity and rigor up to this point, everyone will have a more satisfying and less stressful exam experience. The field preparation should be conducted as a credit-worthy course of study, meeting, note-taking, annotated bibliography and/or other writing with the examiner. (For committee members outside the Grad Group, please show them this document so that they are aware of the requirements and calendar.) For each field, this can be done as Theater 602 Doctoral Study (taken S/U), as 299 Special Study, or as part of a course taken with the professor. Note: If the 299 course is ALSO to count as an elective, then the graduate student needs to take the class for a letter grade and produce a research paper worthy of a four-unit graduate seminar. This essay can fulfill the requirements of the elective; however, the central question of the final seminar essay should be different from the central questions that the field examiner asks in the written portion of the qualifying exam.  Use of a 299 as an elective seminar must be pre-approved by the HGA.  See the GSAO for the application form.  NOTE: The writing of the prospectus cannot count as an elective.3. By the end of the third year, the student must take the Qualifying Examination demonstrating her/his knowledge in three selected areas that contextualize the dissertation. Please note that all Incomplete grades must be satisfactorily completed and removed from the transcript prior to applying for the QE.  The application for the Qualifying Examination is found on your CalCentral page under “Higher Degree Committees Form” and must be submitted 6 weeks before the oral exam; at the same time, the student should distribute a working draft of his/her prospectus to each member of the QE committee along with reading lists for each field. (See the “Dissertation Process, Prospectus & 5th Yr Presentation” tab for additional information about the Prospectus.) The written portion of the qualifying exam takes place about three weeks prior to the scheduled oral exam, usually over a long weekend in late March or early April from 10am Friday to 6pm the following Monday. Each field examiner sends 2 to 3 possible questions for a 10 to 12 page double-spaced essay to the QE chair and the GSAO at least 48 hours in advance of the start of the exam. The chair then reviews the exam questions and the GSAO formats and sends the exam to the student at 10am on the selected Friday. The student writes three “open book” essays over the course of three and a half days, returning the completed exam, the original essay questions, and the reading lists by email to the entire QE committee and the GSAO by 6pm the following Monday. Students should make sure that every committee member understands the process for sending essay questions and has the contact information for the QE Committee and for Robin Davidson, the Graduate Student Affairs Officer.The written exam must be passed prior to taking the oral exam.  If the student fails to pass the written exam, a second and final attempt may be scheduled after consultation with the Head Graduate Advisor and the QE Committee.  The second attempt must take place before the end of the following semester and continuation in the program will depend on passing the exam.4. An oral exam follows the written exam, usually in late April or early May. All committee members receive copies of all three written essays from the student, along with the exam questions and the reading lists for each field. Each committee member will send a confidential response to the QE chair who will confirm the student’s readiness to take the oral exam and alert the student to any concerns expressed by his/her examiners. Confidential exchange between committee members and the orals chair should be copied to the GSAO.  Three hours should be allowed for the oral exam (to which students may not bring notes).  Each field normally receives 20 minutes of questioning, with the fourth member invited to ask a question at the end. The student adjourns while the committee decides whether or not s/he has passed the exam.  The Examining Committee will evaluate the student’s preparation in the three fields of concentration, and consider the potential success of the proposed dissertation work. According to University policy, the Qualifying Examination is not to be a dissertation examination, but must focus on the student’s preparation in the three examination fields. Assuming that the student passes the examination, the committee is then encouraged to use the remaining time for an open discussion of the student’s plans for the dissertation.Upon passing the Qualifying Examination, the student can be Advanced to Candidacy.  The Application for Candidacy is found on your CalCentral page under “Higher Degree Committees Form” and should be submitted very soon after the QE and at least by the end of May. Failure to do so may affect funding in the 4th year.If the student fails the oral exam, the QE Committee may recommend a second and final attempt.  At least three months must pass between the two attempts, and the student’s eligibility to take the QE lasts for only 18 months from the time of the original approval of the QE application according to Graduate Division policy.  Continuation in the program is dependent on passing this exam.We realize that each student enters the third-year with slightly different logistical constraints. Some of you may have finished your coursework while others will need to fulfill an elective or two in Fall of the 3rd year. All of you will still be responsible for three special fields (i.e. selecting field examiners, developing reading lists, and agreeing on a course of study together) and for the drafting of a preliminary prospectus.  Please refer to the QE Process section above for important details. What follows is an ideal calendar for exam preparation. If you are taking an oral exam in the fall, adjust the timetable accordingly.AUGUST-SEPTEMBER
Dissertation Director chosen, examiners chosen, preliminary reading lists drafted; students and evaluators have made agreements on how to prepare.SEPTEMBER-DECEMBER
Examiner meetings and/or writing to prepare special fields and to refine reading lists. Preliminary draft of the prospectus generated with Dissertation Director. (More information about prospectus format can be found in the “Dissertation Process, Prospectus & 5th Yr Presentation” tab.)  Begin work on IRB process for Protection of Human Subjects.JANUARY-FEBRUARY
The reading lists for all fields should be finalized and an edited prospectus prepared. Invite critique of the prospectus from committee members.MARCH
The QE Application is due 6 weeks before the oral exam and can be found on each student’s CalCentral page under “Higher Degree Committees Form.” Also 6 weeks before the QE, the student should distribute a working draft of his/her prospectus to each member of the QE committee along with reading lists for each field.  Dates for the written portion of the exam and the oral exam should be confirmed in late March.  See Robin to reserve a room for the three hour oral exam.APRIL: QUALIFYING EXAMS 
Written Exam — Early April, three weeks before Oral Exam, Friday 10am – Monday 6pm.
Oral Exam — Late April/very early May. No notes allowed. Take the QE Report to the exam for signatures.
The Application for Candidacy  — On your CalCentral page under “Higher Degree Committees Form,” submit soon after passing the QE, at least before the end of May.  Failure to do so may affect funding in the 4th year.After passing the Qualifying Examination, the student will obtain formal agreement from a member of the Graduate Group faculty to serve as Dissertation Director and the Application for Candidacy listing all committee members must be submitted on-line before the end of May for Spring QEs. If this deadline is missed, the student may not be eligible for funding in the 4th year. The Dissertation Director for any given dissertation project must have an interest and expertise in the subject of the proposed dissertation. The choice of Dissertation Director is especially crucial to the student since her/his contact with the Dissertation Director will extend over the duration of dissertation research and writing and will have a great bearing on the success of the student’s dissertation.In consultation with the Dissertation Director and the Head Graduate Advisor, the student will nominate a Dissertation Committee that will consist of the Dissertation Director/Chair and two other faculty members. At least 2 of the 3 committee members must be part of the PS Graduate Group Core Faculty (one of whom will be the Dissertation Chair), and 1 committee member, the Academic Senate Representative (ASR), must be a member of the UC Berkeley Academic Senate and NOT part of the Graduate Group Core Faculty.  The composition of the Committee is subject to the approval of the Graduate Dean, acting on behalf of the administrative committee of the Graduate Council. At least 1 of the Core Faculty members must be from the TDPS department.  The Director and the ASR must belong to the UCB Academic Senate. One member of the Committee may be non-Senate, with the approval of the Graduate Dean. If it is appropriate for the Dissertation Committee to include 4 or 5 members, instead of 3, a “majority” (2/4 or 3/5) must still be from the Grad Group Core Faculty.The student will then develop the final draft of the prospectus.The format of the dissertation prospectus should be no more than 10 pages, single-spaced, with an accompanying select bibliography of not more than 10 pages. (We have tried to set the length and format of the document to conform to standard fellowship and postdoctoral applications with the idea that the prospectus then has a greater potential for being transformed into a vehicle for seeking outside funding.) The prospectus should have the following elements:a. title;
b. names of the committee members;
c. short description of the project;
d. articulation of the “problem” or core research question(s);
e. a brief literature review;
f. a statement about the significance of research and the contribution it is expected to make;
g. a description of key primary sources including the scope, nature, and availability of evidence;
h. a description of the methodology(s) to be used;
i. a timeline for the dissertation research and writing from inception through completion, including travel to archives; and
j. a chapter outline.Students should follow the steps detailed in the “Qualifying Examination Process & Calendar” tab and develop a preliminary draft of the prospectus in the Fall of the 3rd year of coursework, in collaboration with the Dissertation Director. A revised preliminary draft should be circulated to the whole exam committee at least three weeks before the written QE. The prospectus will be discussed and reviewed with the Dissertation Director and Committee over the summer following the QE.A final version of the prospectus must be approved by all Dissertation Committee members and placed on file with the GSAO in the semester following the QE – by December 1 for Spring QEs or May 1 for Fall QEs. During the Fall of the 5th year of study, doctoral candidates will make a public presentation based upon a chapter from their dissertations – to present work that is not only “prospective,” but actually in the process of revision and refinement. This is not an exam; it is not a job talk. It is, however, a chance to share work in progress, to solicit feedback, and to generate critical reflection. ABD researchers will circulate their prospectuses ahead of time to fellow students and faculty; the researcher is thus not obligated to repeat the larger parameters of the project in great detail, knowing that his/her audience has been acquainted in advance. This scenario allows the researcher to be strategic about what portion of his/her work s/he decides to share and to decide how to make best use of the time. ABD researchers are invited to reflect with their dissertation advisors about what work to share and what research sites and research questions they want to explore with the group. Researchers may choose to focus on a previously drafted chapter that feels secure and finalized; however, we also hope that researchers will make use of this time to advance new writing, to reflect together on methodological, organizational, or conceptual issues that might still be vexing them. Researchers are encouraged to ask themselves: what would be most useful to me? where can I use some help from a wider intellectual community who is focused (how lovely is this) for an hour or so on me and my work?Researchers will present roughly 30-minutes of research and reflection, followed by Q & A. Given that this ABD Lecture is also part of a larger and varied intellectual colloquium in the graduate program, fellow students and faculty are strongly urged to read the prospectuses ahead of time and to engage rigorously, generously, and imaginatively with the work of ABD researchers.Upon the completion of the dissertation and its acceptance by the Dissertation Committee, the student will be recommended for the Ph.D.; there will be no dissertation defense.Dissertation Filing Guidelines
Graduate Division Policies – Degrees
Contents:Timely Progress
Funding Package
External Fellowships
Awards
Graduate Division Summer Grant
Conference Funding
Research Funding
Summer Language Study FundingStudents in the Ph.D. Program in Performance Studies are required to make clear and timely progress toward the degree. Retention in the program and reappointment to funded positions (teaching, research, fellowship) will depend in part on the demonstration of timely progress. The program defines timely progress as follows:In order to enhance students’ progress towards completion, the Graduate Program in Performance Studies offers the following completion-promoting activities:Students in the program are normally nominated for University funding and are typically awarded a package of support: fellowship, teaching, and research support derived from University and departmental sources. Students are typically offered five years of support, which depends on continued demonstrable progress; although students may be nominated to the University for dissertation support in the sixth year, students are not automatically funded by the department for a sixth year.The 5-year funding package offered to all students at the time of admission has typically included at least the following:Please note that this package is made up of a combination of fellowship stipend and teaching salary. (Students usually teach in 2 or 3 of the 5 years.)  Stipend payments are usually received in late August, late January, and early June, while teaching salary is received monthly starting in early September.  Taxes will be owed on salary income as well as on fellowship funding.  Some taxes will be withheld from your monthly salary payments, but not from fellowships so save funds with which to pay your tax bill.  This bill can be for several thousand dollars if most of your funding has been from fellowships in the prior calendar year.Our ability to fund all students depends on each student’s commitment to the department and to our program.  By accepting the offer of funding and responding to our request for teaching preferences, you become an important part of how we educate our undergraduate students.  We will provide you with training, support, and supervision to fulfill this important role and prepare for future careers.  At the same time, you are expected to participate fully in this reciprocal agreement, communicate proactively about your circumstances, and fulfill your teaching commitments.Funding in the 4th year: If a student advances to candidacy for the Ph.D. in a timely manner (by the end of the 3rd year), has a satisfactory Doctoral Candidacy Review, is on track to file the dissertation in a timely manner, and has previously applied for any extramural funding, then the student will receive an academic year of Doctoral Completion Fellowship (DCF) support from the Graduate Division. If a student does not qualify for the Doctoral Completion Fellowship, we may offer teaching support in the 4th year and consider teaching support in the 5th year. Consult the Graduate Division website for DCF details.International students please note:  Please read the employment rules on your I-20 or DS-2019 immigration document.  You will likely be limited to a maximum of 50% employment on campus during Fall and Spring and no off-campus employment.  International students are not eligible for as wide a range of loans, grants, and other awards as domestic students.  You will also be charged NRST (Non-Resident Supplemental Tuition) each semester. This will be paid by the department and/or university during your first three years in good standing in the program. At that point, you should pass your Qualifying Exams and Advance to Candidacy. Your NRST will then be waived for 3 years, through the 6th year only.  After the 6th year, you would be charged for NRST unless you have completed your degree, withdrawn, or are on Filing Fee (for 1 semester only). Please consult with Robin as you plan.Many of our graduate students have been successful in garnering external support from sources such as Fulbright, the Social Science Research Council, the Jacob Javitz Fellowship and other funds. Students applying for major year-long external fellowships should be aware that these often do not cover full fees and tuition.  However, the Graduate Division offers top-off funding for External Fellowships and you are encouraged to see if your intended fellowship meets the criteria.  Please consult with Robin in advance when you are considering applying for outside funding so we can discuss possible impacts on teaching and/or on other funding sources.Hickman Book Award
All students receive a $500 stipend during their 3rd year/ QE year to help with book expenses related to preparation for the Qualifying Exam.The Pearl Hickman Graduate Student Essay Prize:
Each Spring we will send out a call for submissions (due by April 1) for consideration for an essay prize to be awarded at Commencement.  This $500 award goes to the most outstanding Performance Studies graduate student essay.  Students must be ABD at the time of submission.  Essays should be 20-30 pages in length, and should be taken from research related to the dissertation, but able to stand alone (i.e. the piece should be self-contained, without a lengthy explanation of the dissertation, as a publishable essay would need to be).  Essays published in other venues are acceptable, as are submissions intended for future publication or under consideration. Full dissertation chapters will not be considered.  Please save the essay in Drive and share with Robin Davidson, making sure to send the email notification. Due by April 1.  Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor (OGSI)
Every year, TDPS nominates its Outstanding GSI for this campus award. The nomination process is department specific and within the Performance Studies Ph.D. that process occurs in the following way: In the early spring, the HGA submits to supervising faculty a list of all ABD students who have taught within the department in the previous calendar year, then from that group, a “short list” of finalists is derived based on number of courses taught, student evaluations, and supervisor observations, usually by February 1. The short-listed candidates are then asked to submit the following materials to support their candidacy by March 1:Each year the Graduate Division awards a given number of summer grants to students in each department. The final selection and allocation of funds ($3500 in 2017) are determined by Grad Div, but the application process is handled by the department. We are usually able to nominate 1 or 2 students and priority is given to students in good standing who do not have other summer funding. The Graduate Division asks that preference be given to students who plan to engage in activities over the summer that advance progress to degree (e.g., language study, preparation for QE, research, or dissertation writing) and students who have not received more than two Summer Grants in the past.Interested students prepare a brief proposal outlining planned use of the funds and including a budget and a summary of achievements in the previous academic year.  Save the proposal in Drive and share with Robin Davidson, making sure to send the email notification.  Due by April 1.Thanks to our Hickman Endowment, we are able to offer registered students some funding for conference and research travel. The deadline for proposals is November 1. Please save your application(s) on Drive and share with Robin Davidson, GSAO, making sure to send the email notification. The Graduate Student Affairs Officer and Head Graduate Advisor will review conference and research applications for the academic year in November and you will be informed of your award(s) before Thanksgiving. Actual awards will be in the form of a stipend and will be made after the GSAO receives appropriate documentation/receipts from the trip. Please note that it is possible to apply for both conference and research travel awards.The Graduate Division offers funding for 2 conferences during your academic career at Berkeley.  You can find more information about these Conference Travel Grants on the Grad Div website. You will be able to apply to our program for additional support.  In general, we assist with a total of 3 conferences, or 2 if both are outside of North America, and offer the following standardized maximum amounts based on geographic location of the conference. These amounts are a guide only and are contingent on our overall fiscal capacity in relationship to the total amount that students request in any given year. In making allocations, we may also take into account the previous travel funding the applicant has received in the program.Applications for financial assistance to travel to give a paper at a conference or professional meeting should include the following:You may apply for the funding even if your paper has yet to be accepted. An award will be made when we receive appropriate documentation/receipts for your trip. In exceptional circumstances, funding may be allocated for a student to attend but not present at a conference. In such cases, the applicant needs to make a clear and compelling case for such attendance. Such awards will also be contingent upon fiscal capacity, with non-presenting attendance being a low funding priority.A Note on Conferences:
We urge students to be strategic about conference and research travel. For instance, you may wish to prioritize research (over conference) travel if your topic requires research in a particular country or city, or at particular archives. Having something to say (by doing field and archival research) is more important than attending a lot of conferences when you have not yet conducted much research![1] Also be resourceful about attending local and US-based conferences when these can serve just as well as international ones to further your intellectual and professional development. Taking advantage of international and national conferences that meet locally is a great way to maximize limited resources. Finally, be resourceful about pursuing other travel fellowships available for graduate students, including grants from elsewhere at Berkeley and also from professional associations themselves.[1] Gregory Colon Semenza says, “When considering how many conferences to attend prior to graduation, you should remember that $1.25 and ten conference credits on your CV will get you a steaming cup of coffee. Conference presentations are not substitutes for publications, and they are worth very little in and of themselves. In other words, no Ph.D. has ever been hired because he happened to present papers at ten conferences. As a demonstration of scholarly activity supplementing a solid publication record, however, a strong list of conference presentations will no doubt strengthen your CV.” From Graduate Study for the 21st Century: How to Build an Academic Career in the Humanities, (NY: Palgrave Macmillan, 2005), p. 183Thanks to our Hickman Endowment, we are able to offer registered students some funding for conference and research travel. The deadline for proposals is November 1. Please save your application(s) in Drive and share with Robin Davidson, GSAO, making sure to send the email notification.  The Graduate Student Affairs Officer and Head Graduate Advisor will review conference and research applications for the academic year in November and you will be informed of your award(s) before Thanksgiving. Actual awards will be in the form of a stipend and will be made after the GSAO receives appropriate documentation/receipts from the trip. Please note that it is possible to apply for both conference and research travel awards.We are especially keen to support primary research that is of paramount importance to a student’s anticipated dissertation project, publications, and entry into the academic profession. We may make awards for 2 research trips, usually for the summers after the 2nd and 4th or 5th years, and award amounts will be primarily based on location of research and cost of any specialized equipment central to conducting primary research. Ineligible expenses: tuition; labor and services such as copyediting.Awards (made as stipends after we receive appropriate documentation/receipts) are usually between $300 and $2,000, with the larger amount awarded only in cases of significant international travel.  Awards for research in the US/Canada/Mexico do not exceed $1,000.  These amounts are a guide only and are contingent on our overall fiscal capacity in relationship to the total amount that students request in any given year.  In making allocations, we may also take into account the previous research funding the applicant has received in the program.The proposals will be evaluated according to the following criteria: significance and potential impact of the proposed research on the student’s trajectory through the graduate program and on professional standing; persuasiveness of the statement of purpose; appropriateness of budgetary items; and industry in attempting to identify alternate funding sources.Applications for financial assistance for research expenses should be 1-2 pages single-spaced and include the following information:Thanks to our Hickman Endowment, we are able to offer registered students some funding for language study. The deadline for proposals is April 1. Please save your application(s) in Drive and share with Robin Davidson, GSAO, making sure to send the email notification.The Graduate Student Affairs Officer and Head Graduate Advisor will review applications in April and you will be informed of your award by mid-month. Actual awards will in the form of a stipend, for a maximum of $1,000, and will be made when the GSAO receives appropriate documentation/receipts for the language class/program. Please note that this award can be used for a private tutor and/or class fees and tuition and does not have to be used for a UC Berkeley language class; we encourage you to find the best class or program for your situation and research needs. You may be required to submit appropriate transcripts/certificates after completion of the course.  Students are eligible for only 1 language award during their time in our program, but study doesn’t have to take place all at once: classes can be taken in 2 summers, for example.If you are interested in doing intensive language study, please provide the information outlined below. Allocations will be contingent on the cumulative amount of all student requests.
Students may elect to earn a Master of Arts degree as they progress through the Ph.D. program by completing M.A. requirements. In the event that a student leaves the Ph.D. program before completion of Ph.D. requirements, she/he may earn a Master of Arts degree by completing the M.A. requirements. A student who enters the Ph.D. program with a Master of Arts degree may not earn another M.A. in this program, except by petition to the Head Graduate Advisor (i.e., students who enter with a M.A. in a related field–English, History, etc.–who wish to earn the M.A. in Performance Studies may do so, through petition to the Head Graduate Advisor). The University does not award duplicate degrees.  See the Graduate Division website (grad.berkeley.edu) and speak with the GSAO for additional information and deadlines.PLEASE NOTE THAT THESE REQUIREMENTS ARE CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW FOR 2017-18 DUE TO CHANGES IN OUR PH.D. REQUIREMENTS AND CORE CURRICULUM.1. Completion of five courses (equaling at least 20 semester units) in performance studies, not counting the Core Colloquia, and participation in a second performance practice activity (beyond Theater 203). These five courses must include the three Core Seminars and two electives approved by the Head Graduate Advisor.2. Completion of a master’s thesis. The master’s thesis will consist of a paper written for a seminar and expanded to article-length; the thesis will be read and approved by at least three readers: although all three readers may be Graduate Group faculty, it is preferable (though not required) to have one reader drawn from outside the Group faculty.
The Head Graduate Adviser (HGA) will provide academic and professional advice to all incoming students in their first three years, or until they have successfully passed the Qualifying Examination and have been admitted to candidacy. Students are encouraged to seek additional guidance for the period before the Qualifying Examination from a potential dissertation director.The Graduate Student Affairs Officer (GSAO) Robin Davidson is the primary point of contact regarding policies, procedures, funding, enrollment, etc.  She is in 15A Dwinelle, Mon-Fri 9:30-1:30, and can be reached at 510-664-7613 or robin@berkeley.edu
Students with disabilities are welcome in this program.  Students who need accommodations for a disability (temporary or permanent, visible or invisible) are responsible for registering with the Disabled Students Program (DSP) and then confirming that our graduate program and/or relevant professor(s) has received an official notification of accommodation needs.  For more information see the website  http://dsp.berkeley.eduPlease be advised that university policies stipulate that academic programs can only provide disability accommodations to students who are registered with the Disabled Students Program, and only the particular accommodations stipulated in the DSP “letter of accommodation” can be provided.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduWelcome to the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.TDPS houses two sets of majors and minors; one set in Theater, and the other in Dance.  You can find more information about the learning goals and course requirements of our programs using the links to the right.The Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies teaches performance as a mode of critical inquiry, creative expression and public engagement. Through performance training and research, we create liberal arts graduates with expanded analytical, technical and imaginative capacities. As a public institution, we make diversity and inclusion a key part of our teaching, art making and public programming.Undergraduate majors and minors are well prepared for the future, both as artists and engaged citizens of the world.  The flexibility and integration of curriculum makes our majors excellent candidates for a variety of professions in the social, corporate, legal, and arts sectors as well for admission to graduate programs in the arts and in professional schools.  We are proud of the ways our graduates have used their critical and expressive skills toward successful careers as professional artists in dance, theater, and experimental performance as well as in law, advertising, human resources, publishing, radio, technology, social work, and in all aspects of for-profit and non-profit administration.At a time when scholars and practitioners across a variety of fields call for more cross-disciplinary intellectual collaboration and project-based learning in higher education, we take pride in our daily commitment to collaboration and to the kind of rigorously critical, team-based projects we develop with our students, staff, and faculty both in the classroom and in our production season.The faculty, staff, and students welcome you to our diverse and energetic department.  In the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, you will find small class sizes, inspiring faculty, engaged staff, talented students, and multiple opportunities to purse your artistic, intellectual, and creative capacities in ways that are both challenging and fulfilling.Academic questions, declare major, class schedule planning:
Michael Mansfield, Undergraduate Advisor
15B Dwinelle Hall (office hours: Mon-Fri, 1pm to 4pm)
(510) 643-4050
tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.eduResources, advice, career questions:
Peter Glazer, Faculty Advisor for Theater
prg@berkeley.eduSanSan Kwan, Faculty Advisor for Dance
sansankwan@berkeley.edu15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.edu1. Learning Goals
2. Path to Achieving Goals
3. Statement of Methods of Evaluation and Feedback Mechanisms
4. Declaring the Major
5. Things to Know About Transfer Credits
6. Contact Us

 By the end of their time in Dance & Performance Studies, students should possess:Through upper-division course work, electives, and capstone experiences students should also possess advanced training in at least one of the following: The path to achieving the aforementioned Learning Goals includes building Foundational Skills, developing Advanced Abilities and undertaking Capstone Experiences.

 In addition to traditional methods of assessment such as analytical papers, research projects, and examinations (which are used primarily in the Performance Studies courses), the TDPS faculty and lecturers use a variety of qualitative and competitive feedback methods. Among these are:
 Students may declare a major in TDPS after passing two pre-requisite coursesWhy declare early? This allows the best use of the many curricular and production opportunities offered by TDPS while at Cal. Additionally, majors are prioritized in decisions about enrollments, auditions, special offers, newsletter info, departmental awards, Main Stage subscriptions, design/choreographic/directing opportunities, and other department resources.To read about Dance & Performance Studies Major Requirements: Current requirementsYou should also know that, as a major, it is expected that students will maintain a 2.0 GPA. Additionally, letter-graded courses for the major MUST be taken for a letter grade.Please see the Department’s Undergraduate Handbook for more information.

 
 Academic questions, declare major, class schedule planning:Michael Mansfield, Undergraduate Advisor
15B Dwinelle Hall  (office hours: Mon-Fri, 1pm to 4pm)
(510) 643-4050
tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.eduResources, advice, career questions:SanSan Kwan, Faculty Advisor for Dance
15F Dwinnell Hall
sansankwan@berkeley.edu15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.edu1. Confirming the Minor
2. Dance & Performance Studies Minor Requirements
3. Sample Minor Tracks
4. Things to Know About Transfer Credits
5. Contact Us

 Students can confirm their intention to minor in Theater & Performance Studies after enrolling in one course in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.Things to know about your minor:
 To read about Theater & Performance Studies Minor Requirements: Current requirementsYou should also know that, as a major, it is expected that students will maintain a 2.0 GPA. Additionally, letter-graded courses for the major MUST be taken for a letter grade.Please see the Department’s Undergraduate Handbook for more information.

 The Theater & Performance Studies Minor requires you to take four upper division electives that build a focus in your major. The sample minors provided below illustrate different potential focus areas, and are intended to help you imagine how you could build a unique focus of your own choosing. You DO NOT have to choose one of these samples in order to minor in our department. We recommend you tailor your chosen electives to your personal interests.Sample: Minor with a Choreography Focus
40 Beginning Modern Dance
141 Intermediate Modern Dance
144 Sources for Movement
146A Choreography
146B Choreography
125 Topics in Performance HistorySample: Minor with a Performance Focus
40A Beginning Modern Dance
141A Intermediate Modern Dance
141B Intermediate Modern Dance
144 Sources of Movement
121 Topics in Performance Culture
180 Dance PerformanceSample: Minor with a Performance Studies Focus
40 Beginning Modern Dance
114 Movement for the Theater
119 Topics in Performance Theory
125 Topics in Performance History
126 Topics in Performance Literature
122 Topics in Performance CultureSample: Minor with a Technical Focus
60 Stagecraft
141 Intermediate Modern Dance
114 Movement for the Theater
119 Topics in Performance Theory
174 Costume Design
179 Costume Production
 
 Academic questions, declare major, class schedule planning:Michael Mansfield, Undergraduate Advisor
15B Dwinelle Hall (office hours: Mon-Fri, 1pm to 4pm)
(510) 643-4050
tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.eduResources, advice, career questions:SanSan Kwan, Faculty Advisor for Dance
15F Dwinnell Hall
sansankwan@berkeley.edu15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.edu1. Learning Goals
2. Path to Achieving Goals
3. Statement of Methods of Evaluation and Feedback Mechanisms
4. Declaring the Major
5. Things to Know About Transfer Credits
6. Contact Us

 By the end of their time in Theater & Performance Studies, students should possess:Through upper-division course work, electives, and capstone experiences students should also possess advanced training in at least one of the following: 

 The path to achieving the aforementioned Learning Goals includes building Foundational Skills, developing Advanced Abilities and undertaking Capstone Experiences. 

 In addition to traditional methods of assessment such as analytical papers, research projects, and examinations (which are used primarily in the Performance Studies courses), the TDPS faculty and lecturers use a variety of qualitative and competitive feedback methods. Among these are: 

 Students may declare a major in TDPS after passing two pre-requisite courses: one Theater course (10 or 60) AND one Performance Studies course (25AC or 26 or 52AC).Why declare early? This allows the best use of the many curricular and production opportunities offered by TDPS while at Cal. Additionally, majors are prioritized in decisions about enrollments, auditions, special offers, newsletter info, departmental awards, Main Stage subscriptions, design/choreographic/directing opportunities, and other department resources.To read about Theater & Performance Studies Major Requirements: Current requirementsYou should also know that, as a major, it is expected that students will maintain a 2.0 GPA. Additionally, letter-graded courses for the major MUST be taken for a letter grade.Please see the Department’s Undergraduate Handbook for more information.
 

  
Academic questions, declare major, class schedule planning:Michael Mansfield, Undergraduate Advisor
15B Dwinelle Hall (office hours: Mon-Fri, 1pm to 4pm)
(510) 643-4050
tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.eduResources, advice, career questions:Abigail De Kosnik, Faculty Advisor for Theater
adekosnik@berkeley.eduSanSan Kwan, Faculty Advisor for Dance
sansankwan@berkeley.edu 15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.edu1. Confirming the Minor
2. Theater & Performance Studies Minor Requirements
3. Sample Minor Tracks
4. Things to Know About Transfer Credits
5. Contact Us

 Students can confirm their intention to minor in Theater & Performance Studies after enrolling in one course in the Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.Things to know about your minor:
 To read about Theater & Performance Studies Minor Requirements: Current requirementsYou should also know that, as a major, it is expected that students will maintain a 2.0 GPA. Additionally, letter-graded courses for the major MUST be taken for a letter grade.Please see the Department’s Undergraduate Handbook for more information.

 The Theater & Performance Studies Minor requires you to take four upper division electives that build a focus in your major. The sample minors provided below illustrate different potential focus areas, and are intended to help you imagine how you could build your own unique focus. You DO NOT have to choose one of these samples in order to minor in our department. We recommend you tailor your chosen electives to your personal interests.Sample: Minor with a Directing Focus 
10 Beginning Acting
110A Intermediate Acting*
110B Intermediate Acting
162 Directing 1
163 Directing 2
125 Topics in Performance HistorySample: Minor with a Performance Studies Focus
26 Introduction to Performance Studies
166 Special Topics in Performance
125 Topics in Performance History
126 Topics in Performance Literature
122 Topics in Performance CultureSample: Minor with an Acting Focus (Check out our Acting Program)
10 Beginning Acting
110A Intermediate Acting*
110B Intermediate Acting
126 Topics in Performance Literature
111 Advanced Acting
111 Advanced ActingSample: Minor with a Performance Focus
10 Beginning Acting
110A Intermediate Acting*
110B Intermediate Acting
114 Performance Workshop
121 Topics in Performance Culture
181 Theater PerformanceSample: Minor with a Technical Focus
60 Stagecraft
173A Set Design
173B Set Design
119 Topics in Performance Theory
179 Set Designer for a Show
179 Set Designer for a ShowOther samples could include:
Minor with a Stage Management focus
Minor with a Costume Design Focus
Minor with a Lighting Design Focus
Minor with a Sound Design Focus*There is no assurance that you can jump directly from Theater 10 to Theater 110A, except by audition; a minor may also need to take Theater 109 before advancing to Theater 110A. 

 
 Academic questions, declare major, class schedule planning:Michael Mansfield, Undergraduate Advisor
15B Dwinelle Hall  (office hours: Mon-Fri, 1pm to 4pm)
(510) 643-4050
tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.eduResources, advice, career questions:Abigail De Kosnik, Faculty Advisor for Theater
adekosnik@berkeley.edu15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduWhy is the Department called Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies?Our discipline has changed as an artistic practice and as an academic field in the last two decades. Our Department changed its name in 1999 in order to reflect our commitment to offering the best mix of our field’s traditional history and its contemporary innovations. The term “Theater” marks all of our efforts to support the study and practice of the theatrical event, not only as a form of dramatic literature, but also as an imagistic, gestural, auditory, spatial, and technically complex project. While we have had a dance program for much of our history, the term “Dance” was only recently added to the official name, foregrounding dance practice and dance history as a central player in our Department’s self-definition. And finally, the term “Performance Studies” signals our relationship to one of the most fundamental alterations in the way scholars have re-imagined the “interdisciplinary” nature of performance. As artists increasingly draw from a range of media–crossing dance and theater, film and dance, theater and new technology–performance studies reflects a commitment to exposing our students to a range of artistic genres. As artists and scholars increasingly imagine themselves in relation to a variety of global and popular performance forms–thinking about the social role of carnivals and festivals, of television and rock concerts, of protests and raves–performance studies reflects our commitment to asking students to see their work in relation to a variety of performance forms in our culture and around the world.Why do we encourage the Dance majors and Theater majors to study together?We feel that today’s artistic climate requires a range of artistic skills and a facility between and amongst genres. Additionally, our requirements in history, literature, culture, and theory offer a chance for performers in different sub-fields to see themselves in relation to longer and wider traditions of performance experiment, an experience that reflects on the work of both theater and dance practitioners.Do you have to audition to get into the Theater and Performance Studies or Dance and Performance Studies Majors?No. Once you are accepted in UC Berkeley, you may study in any department. You are required to take some pre-requisites (a dance/theater course and a performance studies course) before declaring your major. This is to reassure you (and the Department) that you will be able to handle the technical and intellectual work of the coursework. You do audition for individual acting or dance classes each semester, and you do audition to be cast in specific shows or concerts.How do the TDPS undergraduate programs rank in comparison to other theater/dance programs?Our Department is most noted for its critical studies, its cross-disciplinary experimental stage work, and its productions related to social action. It is also known for housing a leading doctoral program in our field and for placing undergraduates in leading M.F.A. programs. Beyond that, there are no standard rankings for theater/dance programs at American universities. In part, this has to do with the relatively small sizes of most programs and the difficulty of standardizing quality. Even word-of-mouth reputation can be outdated since so many university acting programs that began in the 1960s no longer have the faculty or exact fields of study that established their fame (we could claim Gregory Peck as a one-time acting student but that was in 1938). We are proud to promote cross-disciplinary performance practice and scholarship at one of the leading research universities in the world.How many students are in the Department?100 Theater Majors and 100 Theater Minors; 50 Dance Majors and 50 Dance MinorsCan I take classes if I’m not a major?Yes, our courses are open to non-majors, though many fill quite quickly. Some practical classes do require auditions; other over-subscribed courses do give preference to majors.I’m a junior transfer and I’d like to major in the Department. Am I too late?No. You can easily fulfill the requirements for the Dance and Performance Studies Major or the Theater and Performance Studies Major in 4 semesters.I’ve already taken a lot of the requirements for the theater major at my previous junior college, 4-year college, or abroad, so do I have to take them again here?Most all of the units you have taken will transfer into UCB into your degree from the College of Letters and Science. The only course that regularly transfers into the major, however, is your beginning acting course, taken at a community college or 4-year college. If you took other courses in a 4-year college or abroad, you may transfer into the major up to 8 units of elective credit with courses that are comparable to or complementary to the courses offered here at TDPS. These courses will need to be approved by the Undergraduate Advisor, Faculty Advisor, or the Faculty Member teaching the comparable course.What do the students do with a theater or dance degree after they graduate? How successful are they?Some go directly into MFA programs, such as Yale School of Drama, NYU, or Northwestern University; others decide to enter a Theater Studies Ph.D. Program, such as those found at UC Berkeley, Stanford, Northwestern, New York University, or many others throughout the world. Some move to New York, Los Angeles, or San Francisco to work as actors, dancers, directors, designers, technicians, or by starting their own group or production company. Others move to Hollywood to work in the film and television community in front of or behind the camera. Still others go into a variety of professions in the social, corporate, legal, and arts sectors. We are proud of the ways our graduates have used their critical and expressive skills toward successful careers as professional artists in dance, theater, and experimental performance as well as in law, advertising, human resources, publishing, radio, technology, social work, and in all aspects of non-profit and business administration. For a snap-shot of the recent work of our alumni, we invite you to take a look out our annual newsletter and the alumni section of our website.How can I get connected or stay connected to the Department?TDPS students receive regular email updates from the Department with the most current information on auditions, course enrollments, productions, special events and lectures, ticket offers, internships, career opportunities, and more. If you would like to be on the mailing list, send your email address to tdpsugadvisor@berkeley.edu, requesting to be on the email list.Do you have an UG Handbook for the Majors?Yes, you can download a pdf of our UndergraduateHandbook. We strongly recommend that you read this manual thoroughly, as it offers detailed answers to some of the most important frequently-asked questions.Do you have any helpful documents that will help me plan my time in TDPS, or show pathways to focuses within the major such as Acting, Directing, Playwriting, Choreography, Stage Management, Design, etc?Yes, please see the Curriculum of Advising document below, giving examples of possible courses of study.Possible Course of Study for 4 Years or 4 Semesters in TDPS to Maximize Your Experience and LearningCan I meet with an advisor to talk about my studies in your Department?Yes, Michael Mansfield is our Undergraduate Advisor and is available by appointment in the Hearst Field Annex office Monday-Friday, 1-4pm. Professor Mel Gordon is our Head Undergraduate Advisor on the faculty. We strongly recommend that you thoroughly read the Undergraduate Handbook and relative information on our website before making an appointment with any staff or faculty member.How large are the TDPS classes?The Department is committed to keeping the theater, dance, and technical training courses to 20 students or less in a conservatory model. Performance studies courses may be larger due to their lecture format, but are often connected with smaller discussion sections of 20 or less.I’m a playwright/director/choreographer. Are there chances for me to create my own show within the Department?Yes. We have a number of opportunities for student-written, student-directed, and student-choreographed work to receive departmental support. These student-initiated shows in the departmental season are awarded competitively after review of formal proposals. If you’re interested in submitting a proposal for a student-written or student-directed work, we strongly encourage you to speak with a faculty supervisor as soon as possible so that you may submit a strong proposal to the evaluating committee. Performance-based proposals are due in February each year. Also see another two-semester option for proposing your own work in the following Honors Thesis question.Theater 196 Student Directing or Choreography Project ApplicationDoes the Department have an Honors Thesis?Yes. The Honors Thesis is not a requirement for graduation, but rather an opportunity for a student to deepen their research with a project of particular interest to them. Students may apply to complete a year-long Honors Thesis project. It may take two forms: a year-long research project (a semester of research followed by a semester culminating in a full-length paper or written creation/play) or a semester of research and shorter research paper followed by a semester culminating in a creative project/production/show. Most Honors Theses begin in the fall and conclude in the spring. If a student will graduate in December instead, they may begin a written-only Honors Thesis in spring semester and conclude in the fall of the following academic year. Performance-based proposals are due the February before the two-semester commitment. Please see the Undergraduate Student Advisor if you have any questions regarding your proposal, and see below for an application.Theater 195 Honors Thesis ApplicationDoes the Department have internship opportunities?Yes. Many students have completed unpaid, off-campus internships for departmental credit at theater companies, television stations, etc. You will need to choose a faculty member to be your supervisor for this course and fill out the application form by the 12th week of the semester before the internship is scheduled to begin. Check with the UG Advisor or faculty for help in locating possible internships. Other pre-requisites of this course exist and are explained in the application form, which can be found below.Theater 197 Internship ApplicationDoes the Department offer opportunities for me to teach a course while I am here?DeCal courses offer students the chance to propose teaching something that they have trained in or feel passionate about. Students may propose a course, and if approved, will work with a faculty member to create a course description, syllabus, and semester-long class. Application forms are due the 8th week of the semester before the DeCal course is scheduled to begin. Check with the UG Advisor or faculty for help in creating possible DeCal courses. Other pre-requisites of this course exist and are explained in the application form. Please see below for Theater 98/198 DeCal Course Application.Theater 98/198 DeCal ApplicationDoes the Department have independent study opportunities?Yes. Students may create an independent study proposal with any faculty member and fill out the application form by the 12th week of the semester before the independent study is scheduled to begin. Other pre-requisites of this course exist and are explained in the application form for Theater 199, which can be found below.Theater 99, 199 Independent Study ApplicationDo I have to perform in shows to get a Theater and Performance Studies major?No, you do not have to perform to fulfill all of the participations required of the major. You can opt to participate in a variety of other ways (technical, design, directorial, etc.). For more specific questions regarding production rules and opportunities, see the Production FAQ section of our website.What kind of dance do you teach?The Dance and Performance Studies Major is focused on modern/contemporary dance technique, choreography, performance, and research. We also offer a course in Ballet for the Contemporary Dancer, and Afro-Haitian Dance. Other dance courses (ballet, tap, jazz, folkdance, hiphop, ballroom, and modern) are offered in the Physical Education Department, but these courses are not connected with the Dance and Performance Studies Major. They are, however, wonderful complementary trainings to your work here in the Department. Excellent ballet courses are also available through Berkeley Ballet School, Oakland Ballet School, and San Francisco Ballet Academy.Do I need to prepare anything for the dance technique class auditions?No preparation is necessary. The audition for each dance technique class is the first class. If you have footless tights and leotards or tight fitting clothes, please wear them (there are changing rooms in the studio). You will be given a technique class by the instructor of that class and evaluated by that teacher in consultation with a panel from the dance faculty. You must audition for the level class in which you seek placement. You may audition for several classes if you are unsure of your abilities or level. Generally, 70% of the students auditioning are accepted.What are distinguishing characteristics of the Dance and Performance Studies Major?Dance programs are generally identified by particular characteristics. Berkeley’s program is unique in that 1) it is small, 2) it demands intensive commitment to the technical training, 3) it provides many opportunities for self-initiated and group-initiated creative dance projects, and 4) it fosters an intellectual grasp of the many issues associated with the world of modern/contemporary dance. The foundation is four levels of daily modern technique that build core strength and develop alignment. The program offers a three-semester creative cycle of courses that lead a student into Department-sponsored independent choreographic projects. Additionally, the Department provides numerous performance opportunities each year to its students. Choreographers for these projects may be guest professionals, faculty, or students. We are fortunate to be able to draw on the wealth of Bay Area dance teachers and choreographers for our studio classes. Performance Studies courses include the study of the history of dance, world dance forms, and the broader study of performance with movement being one of several media. The dance faculty is particularly interested in the development of conceptually-founded multi-disciplinary projects.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduHELPFUL INFORMATION AND FORMS:TDPS Undergraduate Student Handbook 2016-17DANCE AND PERFORMANCE STUDIES MAJOR CHECKLISTDANCE AND PERFORMANCE STUDIES MINOR CHECKLISTTHEATER AND PERFORMANCE STUDIES MAJOR CHECKLISTTHEATER AND PERFORMANCE STUDIES MINOR CHECKLISTInternship Opportunities for UC Berkeley Students in the Arts HELPFUL LINKS:Admissions
Ask a Peer
Calendar – Academic
Calendar – Student
Career Center
College of Letters & Science Website
College of Letters & Science Advising
Concurrent Enrollment 
Education Abroad Programs
Financial Aid 
Find a Class 
General Catalog
Graduate School Preparation
International Students
International Student Housing
Office of the Registrar
Schedule of Classes
Scholarship Connection
Student Housing 
Suggested Courses
Summer Session 
Transferring Credit from Other Colleges
On-Line Orientation for Letters & Sciences
University Health Services – Tang Center15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.eduThe UC Berkeley Department of Theater, Dance and Performance Studies (TDPS) has partnered with Berkeley-based Meyer Sound to install a state-of-the-art audio system in the 550-seat Zellerbach Playhouse. Used by both TDPS and Cal Performances, the newly-installed Meyer Sound System will provide optimal acoustics for a broad range of events, including theatrical performance, dance concerts, lectures, workshops, classes and special events.Generously underwritten by Bay Area sound innovators Meyer Sound, the audio solution includes UPJunior-XP VariO loudspeakers, UP-4XP loudspeakers, UMS-1P and 500-HP subwoofers, and a Galileo loudspeaker management system for system drive and alignment. Meyer Sound equipment has also been installed in TDPS’s other performance and studio spaces, including the 140-seat Durham Studio Theater and the Zellerbach Room 7 blackbox.“The old audio system in The Playhouse had been in operation for more than 30 years and was still functional, but did not offer an optimal sound experience,” says Wil Leggett, TDPS’s Production Manager. “Sound is an essential component of any theatrical experience. We want to offer the best experience possible to our students and our audiences, so when we had the opportunity to upgrade our system we went to Meyer Sound, a company that is the gold standard in professional audio equipment and also happens to be local.”With the installation of Meyer Sound equipment, TDPS students have enhanced opportunities for hands-on work with precise professional audio, allowing for invaluable professional training and artistic growth. Chair of TDPS Catherine Cole says, “Meyer Sound equipment is renowned for accuracy and precision, and this new system will be an incredible asset to the student performers and designers that create in our spaces, the professional designers we hire, and the audiences that come through our doors—both now and for years to come.”Based in Berkeley, Meyer Sound is a valued and generous community partner to UC Berkeley. In addition to the custom-designed TDPS system, Meyer Sound equipment provides memorable experiences at Zellerbach Hall, Memorial Stadium, Haas Pavilion and the new UC Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive building. “With this state-of-the-art audio system from Meyer Sound, TDPS now has equipment on par with some of the best cultural institutions in the region and around the world,” says Cole.ABOUT MEYER SOUNDMeyer Sound is a leader in the world of sound, continually seeking to elevate the overall dialogue about sound and bring greater awareness to the importance of how we hear and how we listen. Founded in 1979 by John and Helen Meyer, Meyer Sound has continually explored the everyday impact of sound—applying the highest level of scientific and acoustical principles to achieve extraordinary results in places ranging from restaurants to cruise ships to office space and concert halls and cathedrals. Outstanding design, manufacturing, service and support are the result of a company philosophy where creative thinking, old-fashioned craftsmanship and forward thinking technology are strongly intertwined.ABOUT TDPSCurrently celebrating its 75th Anniversary, the UC Berkeley Department of Theater, Dance and Performance Studies teaches performance as a mode of critical inquiry, creative expression and public engagement. Through performance training and research, we create liberal arts graduates with expanded analytical, technical and imaginative capacities. As a public institution, we make diversity and inclusion a key part of our teaching, art making and public programming. Spring 2016.15 Dwinelle | Berkeley, CA 94720-2560 | P: 510.642.1677  tdps@berkeley.edu