Instructor: Victoria Kahn An introduction to Renaissance humanism, focusing on the work of Petrarch, Bruni, Salutati, Valla, Machiavelli, Castiglione, Erasmus, More, Ascham, Elyot, Lipsius, and Shakespeare. In addition, we will read some of the classics of Renaissance scholarship (Burckhardt, Kristeller, Baron, Garin, Trinkaus, Greenblatt, Cave and Greene), as well as more recent work in the field. Topics will include Renaissance theories of imitation and literary production, the revival of classical rhetoric, humanist pedagogical practices, the civic and political function of rhetoric, the transformation of political theory, the relationship between Christianity and classical culture. [more]Instructor: Déborah Blocker This seminar introduces students to the historiography of early modern French society (1600-1800), by comparing modern historiographical writings on the topic to a variety of literary texts ­ plays, novels, mémoires and social satire ­ from the 17th and 18th centuries, which depict early modern French society or reflect on particular social problems. It asks not only what was French society in the Old Régime, but also how did the very notion of an "Old Régime" society come into existence and in what ways is this historiographical construct still important for us today? To answer these questions, the seminar will focus on how modern historiography works to reconstruct France's forgone social realities and what role literary productions might have played in the process. [more]Instructor: Ethan Shagan History 275B is the foundational course in the history of early modern Europe from roughly 1400 to 1800, or from the Renaissance through the French Revolution. The course offers an intensive introduction to major themes and historiographical debates and aims to develops graduate students' skills in historical criticism. It is intended for graduate students in the history department with EME as their first or second field; other graduate students may take the course with permission of the instructor. [more]Instructor: Jonathan Sheehan Christianity has always oriented itself toward, and put an enormous premium on, an organizing principle of orthodoxy. In the early modern period, however, orthodoxy exploded into competing factions. Multiple orthodoxies emerged, and in their wake, a host of heterodoxies and heresies. These dynamics put enormous pressure on normative Christianity, and were powerfully generative of new forms of religious, political, and cultural life. This course will treat this period of dynamic diversification, roughly spanning 1450-1700, as a laboratory for studying the history and historiography of modern religion. [more]Instructor: Todd Olson The Spanish born artist, who was active in Rome and Naples during the first half of the seventeenth-century, has left a series of works that are remarkable for their repetitiveness. Thumbnail photos of his oil paintings in catalogue raisonées betray obsessive repetition. This seminar will consider how figurative iteration, reversibility and material degradation in Ribera’s etchings provided an experimental practice. The seminar will also consider the late work of Caravaggio in Naples, Sicily and Malta, Ribera’s representation of torture and martyrdom, his graphic procedures, and the politics of representation in viceregal Naples. [more]Instructor: Frank Bezner This course explores one of the most creative and interesting periods in post-classical Latin literature and literary culture: the epoch of humanism and the subsequent "respublica litterarum" of the 16th and 17th centuries. We will first read extracts from Petrarchs Latin works, then focus for about a month on literary works produced in (basically) 15th-century Florence (Salutati, Bruni, Pico, Poliziano). In the last third of the course we will explore some - mainly poetic - genres (e.g. love poetry by Johannes Secundus; Milton's Latin poems; neo-Latin epics; and some early-modern philology). [more]Instructor: Michael Wintroub In this class we will take the measure of measure, from vision, to motion, to affect and emotion, on to time and the heavens and into the hidden recesses of the body. Sight was disciplined by perspective; motion was plotted and gauged; representation was organized and made to scale; language was given order; and man as a moral/political being was directed to live a measured—prudent—life. [more]Instructor: Ivonne del Valle En este curso partiremos de un planteamiento radical: el hecho de que 1492 marcó el fin de un mundo y el principio de otro, pese a que muchos de sus protagonistas de entonces y de épocas posteriores no parecen haberse dado cuenta de ello. [more]Instructor: Timothy Hampton In this seminar we will study the intersection between major works of French Renaissance literature and the rich body of "travel literature" that begins to be produced during the period--both in response to the "voyages of discovery" to the Americas and Asia, and in response to increasing engagement between France and the Ottoman Empire. Beginning with a look at such canonical genres as the "natural history" and the pilgrimage narrative, we will study the ways in which conventions, clichés and material from travel begin to find their way into that discourse that would come to be called "literature"--poems, plays, essays, fiction.  [more]Instructor: Nicholas Paige and Peter Sahlins This course will introduce students to a range of work on early modern court societies via a consideration of the paradigmatic example of such a society, Louis XIV's "absolutist" court. Moving out from the foundational studies of Foucault, Elias, and Marin, we will explore a number of more recent efforts - coming from the disciplines of both literary studies and history - to parse the historical and historiographical category of "absolutism" and some of the received ideas associated with it (the "Classical Age," "subjectivity," indeed "modernity" itself).  [more]Instructor: Professors Carla Hesse and Jonathan Sheehan Arguably, in the past 25 years, the Enlightenment has effectively collapsed as a set of philosophical, political, and social prescriptions. It has, at the same time, become far more various, plural, and local in its historical character. This course proposes to take up the problem of Enlightenment as a topic of historical research in this post-national moment, and aims both to survey recent historiography and to identify directions for promising future work [more]Instructor: Professors Todd Olson and  Kathryn Blair-Moore This course proposes to explore the Renaissance origins of three closely interrelated stylistic categories, the Gothic, grotesque, and arabesque, and the ways in which they engage with the perceived alterity of ornament.  Both the Gothic and grotesque were defined in terms of bodily deformity, femininity, perverse hybridity, and lack of regulation and control, and used to characterize the foreignness of the arabesque, and vice versa.   [more]Instructor: Professor Albert Ascoli A dated and yet not entirely discarded cliché calls Petrarch the “first modern man,” and the pervasive influence of Petrarch on both the growth of Latin Humanism and lyric Petrarchism in the 15th and 16th centuries is widely acknowledged.  The thesis of this course (and of a conference that will also be held during fall 2013) is that Petrarch’s contemporary, friend and follower, Giovanni Boccaccio, had an influence no less pervasive—indeed perhaps far more so—but far less widely considered by the scholarship.  [more]Instructor: Professor Ignacio Navarrete This class is designed to help graduate students develop their own reading and interpretation of Don Quijote. Emphasis will be on close reading of the novel; among the topics to be considered are the relationship between Don Quijote and the origins and development of the modern novel, as well as views on love, beauty, freedom, religion, empire, justice, duty, verisimilitude, poetic theory, and many other topics. [more]Instructor: Professor Ivonne del Valle In this seminar we will explore some of the aesthetic and sociopolitical debates linked to the term "Baroque." Even though in the case of the Americas, many studies situate the emergence of the Baroque in European settings that later on "exported" its form and style to the Indies, we will contemplate connecting the Baroque's rhetorical style to 16th century debates about the new territories, and to the role of the colonial experience in the development of aesthetics and politics on the other side of the Atlantic.  [more]Instructor: Professor Oliver Arnold Instead of pursuing a master problematic, we will take up a wide range of issues: when I read Shakespeare these days, I am interested in his representations of citizenship, compassion, artificial persons (political representatives, diplomats, surrogates, actors), poverty, the Roman Republic, false consciousness, and slavery; and I expect that other participants will bring many more concerns to the table. This capacious approach will allow us to take full advantage of Shakespeare’s unique importance to the evolution of literary criticism and to the philosophy of art. [more]Instructor: Jeffrey Knapp For most writers on the subject, mass entertainment is a distinctively modern phenomenon, made possible by unprecedented technological advances in production and distribution.  Our course will challenge the historical as well as theoretical constraints on mass entertainment that this technocentric conception imposes.  We’ll study the theory and practice of mass entertainment during two moments of major innovation in mass entertainment: when permanent theaters were first built in sixteenth-century London, and when talking pictures were first marketed in twentieth-century Hollywood.  Comparing plays and movies to the Renaissance and modern commentary on them, we’ll treat these works not simply as examples of mass entertainment but also as analyses of it. [more]Instructor: Nicholas Paige Crafted to appeal to a mixed urban audience as well as to King and court, running the generic gamut from farce and Latin comedy to a new kind of satire that provoked, in the words of a contemporary, a silent "rire dans l'âme," Molière's theatrical output is astonishingly varied.  In addition, his plays (of which we'll be reading a selection) offer a profound engagement with the politico-cultural mutations of the 1660s, a decade that in hindsight has appeared to many as the founding moment of modernity in France. Our seminar will take the measure of the main lit-critical approaches as well as canvass more recent attempts to understand his work in the context of the institutions that shaped it.  Readings in French and English; discussions mostly in French but English speakers welcomed. [more]Instructor: Déborah Blocker This seminar introduces students to the fundamentals of book history (the invention of the printing press, development and policing of the book market, and the material forms of the book), but also to what in the field is now called scribal culture, that is the continued circulation of manuscripts during the age of the printing press and, more generally, the lasting and constant competition between books and manuscripts in the high culture of early modern Europe. [more]Instructor: Niklaus Largier and Beate Fricke The Sacred has become a key term in recent debates in a number of disciplines. However, what is at its core is often astonishingly undefined, open and ambivalent. Important theories of the Sacred have been articulated in the 20th century by Otto, Eliade, Caillois, Benjamin, Bataille, Auerbach, Feigel, Girard, Ricoeur, Smith, Agamben. In this course we will discuss a range of medieval and early modern images and texts in order to understand the notion of the sacred – in the past and today. [more]Instructor: Kinch Hoekstra This is a seminar in the history of political and legal theory. We will explore the idea of fundamental law, illegal laws, mixed government and divided sovereignty, the development of checks and balances, and the very idea of a constitution. [more]Instructor: Professors Victoria Kahn and Ethan Shagan This course offers an introduction to Renaissance and early modern studies, focusing on debates about secularism as they pertain to four topics: the state, the human, literature, and society. We will read works by Dante, Luther, and Savonarola, Las Casas, Petrarch, Machiavelli, Milton, Lucy Hutchinson, Ann Halkett, and Giambattista Vico. The course will be co-taught by a historian and literary scholar and the methodological differences between these approaches will be one of the main topics of the seminar. The course satisfies the Intellectual History requirement of the Designated Emphasis in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies.  [more]Instructor: Professor Jeffrey Knapp This survey course will focus on the poetry, drama, and prose literature of sixteenth-century England.  We'll also read key works from the past fifty years of literary scholarship on the period.   [more]Instructor: Professor Sugata Ray The 1980s arrival of an archive fever, le mal d’archive, saw the development of new methods of fieldwork and research in visual studies and art history. This, in turn, provoked a questioning of the conceit of the archive as a panoptical repository of objects and documents. The move towards reading the archive-as-subject (ethnographies of the archive), rather than the archive-as-source (study of objects housed in an archive), leads us to reexamine the archive function in both history and historiography. [more]Instructor: Professor Albert Ascoli This course is the first half of a two semester sequence which will study the evolution of Dante’s cultural project and his poetics.  In this semester we will examine the major works leading up to the writing of the Commedia: Vita Nova; the major “canzoni”; De Vulgari Eloquentia, and Convivio, seen in proleptic relationship to selected passages from the Inferno.  [more]Instructor: Professor Diego Pirillo ‘Inglese italianato è un diavolo incarnato’ (an Italianate Englishman is a devil incarnate) , Roger Ascham famously said in the Schoolmaster, reproaching the wide diffusion of Italian language and culture in Elizabethan England. Despite Ascham’s attack on the ‘Italianate Englishmen’, the influence of Renaissance Italy remained wide and persistent in early modern England, as is clear to any reader of the Merchant of Venice or Romeo and Juliet. What Italian authors were read the most in the Tudor and the Stuart period and by whom? Who published them and in what material form? How did the book trade work? Did the movement go only in one direction or was Italy also reciprocally influenced by English culture?  [more]Instructor: Professor James Grantham Turner An exploration of the satire, devotional autobiography, prose fiction, letter-writing, diaries, heroic verse, drama, pornography and feminist polemic produced in England between the Restoration of Charles II (1660) and circa 1735; these will include Behn’s Oroonoko, the world best-seller Robinson Crusoe, the earlier works of Pope (Rape of the Lock), selected letters of Mary Wortley Montagu describing her life in Turkey, and major writings by Swift (Tale of a Tub, Modest Proposal, Gulliver’s Travels).  [more]Instructor: Professor David Marno  What does it mean to speak to God through a sonnet? Why would someone retell the story of the Biblical Fall in verse? Why rewrite the Psalms in rhyme royal? In this course, we’ll read sixteenth- and seventeenth-century religious poetry along with their source texts and contexts in order to answer such questions. [more]Instructor: Professor Déborah Blocker This course investigates the literary, artistic and intellectual importance of the major learned academies of early modern France, Italy and Spain (1500-1800), with an eye to their social and political impact.  [more]Instructor: Professor Diego Pirillo Since its first appearance in 1962, Jürgen Habermas’s The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere has had a wide influence on several fields and disciplines from the humanities to the social sciences. Translated into English in 1992, it has been further discussed and reappraised, opening new directions of research also with regard to the early modern period.  [more]Instructor: Professor Shannon Stimson The purpose of the seminar is to examine selected writings of crucial thinkers in the history of Renaissance and Early Modern Political Thought (Erasmus, Machiavelli, Bacon, Shakespeare, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Hume and Marx). Secondary writings accompanying each thinker will assist us in considering some of the contextual and interpretive issues of relevance to these thinkers, and in considering such problems as: counsel, authority, sovereignty, tyranny, subjection, oaths, obedience, religious toleration, forms of political participation, sociability and civil government, justice, equality, and revolution. [more]Instructor: Professor Ivonne Del Valle In this course we will read Spanish texts (written by Spaniards or under the direction of Spaniards) dealing with problems arising in the colonies in the 16th century around several related issues: what constituted just war and a just enemy, when was violence excessive, how to turn enormous populations speaking multiple languages into good Christian subjects and (especially)into good laborers, how to write about a nature that seemed to contradict current scientific ideas?  [more]Instructor: Professor Emilie  Bergmann An exploration of the changing conceptualization of intertextual relationships, from Garcilaso’s Petrarchist poetics to dramatist Octavio Solís and novelist Giannina Braschi’s postmodern versions of Calderón’s La vida es sueño. Among the stops between: ekphrasis (verbal imitation of a work of visual art); the voices of pícaros from Lazarillo to Cabeza de Vaca and Cervantes; operas, novels, and music inspired by Sor Juana’s poetry; Carpentier and the architecture of the neo-Baroque. Critical readings will include recent work by Luis Avilés, Noelia Cirigliano, and Mar Martínez-Góngora on early modern space. 
Most readings will be excerpts on bSpace. 
 [more]Instructor: Professor Niklaus Largier Focusing on the history of iconoclasm, images, practices of figuration, and the imagination, this course will trace key aspects of the literary and intellectual history from the 16th to the 17th century. Readings will include key texts by Luther and the radical reformers; Ignatius of Loyola and his influence; the figure of the fool; the emblem tradition; as well as representatives of 17th century baroque drama, poetry, and mysticism. [more]Instructor: Professor Joanna Picciotto We will track the controversies that dominated public life in the generation before the outbreak of war (with particular emphasis on the Martin Marprelate phenomenon and the furor excited by the "Book of Sports"), explore the textual remains of social movements made possible by the abolition of monarchy (with emphasis on the Diggers and the Levellers), and closely read the first books of poetry written in the aftermath of the invention of the newspaper. We will also read a fair amount of secondary literature. Each student will give a brief in-class presentation and produce a research paper.  [more]Instructor: Professor David Marno “Permit me to repeat,” Adorno writes in his celebrated essay on lyric poetry’s relationship to its context, “that we are concerned not with the poet as a private person, not with his psychology or his so-called social perspective, but with the poem as a philosophical sundial telling the time of history.” In this course, we read the poetries of John Donne and T. S. Eliot to see how (or indeed whether) they tell the time of history. To raise the stakes of this exercise, we will focus on Donne’s Holy Sonnets and Eliot’s Four Quartets, ie. poems that share an investment in religion but were written under markedly different circumstances.  [more]Instructor: Professor Nicholas Paige The epistolary novel is a particularly curious literary artifact: unlike the third-person and the first-person novel, which have historically proven to be robust and adaptable forms, the letter novel enjoyed a spectacular if relatively brief moment of hegemony before fading into quaintness.  [more]Instructor: Professor Peter Sahlins This graduate seminar considers several topics in the study of European popular culture(s) during the long early modern period (14th-19th centuries), relying on the methodologies of microhistory.  In an age that increasingly values “Big History” and “The Long Duration,” this course focuses on a methodological approach widely practiced since the 1970s that seeks to make sense of discrete and unusual moments (often scandals or judicial trials) in the lives and activities of a single person or small group of people who have been marginalized in more traditional accounts of early modern European history.  Focusing on the lives, beliefs, and behaviors of (mostly) marginal people in peripheral places, microhistorians seek to uncover the everyday worlds of ordinary people in a society transformed by religious reformation, the rise of literacy, the growth of state power, and economic transformation. [more]Instructor: Professor Sugata Ray The recent past has seen a renewed scholarly focus on the mobility and global circulation of people, objects, and ideas across the early modern world. Historians have now come to understand the early modern as fundamentally transcultural, a form of “globalization” before modernity. But what role did early modern trade networks and diplomacy, commodities and consumption, warfare and intrigue play in the production of objects? How did technology transfer reshape aesthetic taste? Conversely, in what ways did material objects participate in the development of the global early modern as a political, social, and intellectual condition? With these questions in mind, we will closely focus on one object each week to generate a theory of things circulating across the early modern world. [more]Instructor: ProfessorsBeate Fricke and Elizabeth Honig What is Mankind? How are we placed in the cosmos; what constitutes the fundamental nature of our being; and in what ways can we be elevated, inspired, socialized, and corrupted? Our ways of answering these questions are said to have undergone a fundamental shift with the advent of renaissance humanism. This course investigates the nature and extent of that shift, and asks which areas of thinking about mankind were more, and less, altered at the dawn of the modern period.  [more]Instructor: Professor Albert R. Ascoli Our aim will be to situate Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando furioso, the most widely read literary text of the sixteenth century, at a pivotal place within an array of literary, cultural, and socio-political histories.  Most prominently, from a literary-historical point of view, the Furioso may be situated within two genealogies that are often read in opposition to one another: the Renaissance recuperation of classical epic poetry in the Virgilian (and Homeric) mode through a filter of chivalric romance (culminating in Tasso and Milton), and the early modern passage from romance, novella, and other late medieval genres to what would become the literary genre par excellence in centuries to come, the novel (the first great exemplars being Rabelais’ Gargantua and Pantagruel and Cervantes’ Don Quixote).   [more]Instructor: Professor Daniel Lee This course investigates the ‘Civil Law’ or the jus civile, the legal order first established by classical Roman jurists and codified in uniform textual form by the Emperor Justinian known collectively as the ‘Body of Civil Law’ [Corpus Juris Civilis].  Hailed variously as ‘the written embodiment of reason’ and ‘the true philosophy,’ Civil Law was foundational to Western jurisprudence and political thought, and its influence was particularly important among early modern theorists of rights and the sovereign state. [more]Instructor: Professor Kinch Hoekstra In this iteration of the course in Renaissance and Early Modern Political Thought, we will focus on a close reading of The Elements of Law (1640) by Thomas Hobbes.  This work has a similar range to that of Hobbes's 1651 Leviathan, though with much less attention to theological and ecclesiastical matters.  The earlier weeks of the course will be devoted to a consideration of background materials that are also of intrinsic interest, including Jean Bodin's Six Books of the Republic. [more]Instructor: Professor Ivonne del Valle Recent work of environmental historians has demonstrated how Spanish America underwent drastic changes during the colonial period. From the desertification of 20% of what is now Mexico to the traces of pollution found in the ice caps of the Andes due to mining, it would appear that, since the 16th century, the relationship between technology and economic activity had a detrimental impact on the “New World” natural environment which is only now beginning to be studied. [more]Instructor: Professor Emilie L. Bergmann Góngora's Soledades and Sor Juana's Primero sueño exemplify the ruptures and continuities in concepts of language and mind. Our readings will frame these poems, as well as sonnets and romances, in terms of philosophical perspectives, visual culture, and sonorous structures in the Baroque, and Neo-Baroque readings of Caribbean writers. [more]Instructor: Professor James Grantham Turner A sampling of sixteenth-century discourses of sexuality, theories of Eros, artworks and writings about the erotic in art, from major male and female authors in Italy, France and England. The aim is to test the hypothesis of my recent research – that an “erotic revolution” transformed Italian art and art writing – and to explore how far it applies to other literatures. For a brief period, after 1500 and before the Counter-Reformation, arousal could be interpreted  as  a  positive  experience  that yielded new ways of seeing and producing art, at the center rather than the margins of the culture. Some of the texts we will read are openly libertine or obscenely explicit, others develop the amorous sonnet and the philosophical love-treatise in more elevated language, but all manifest the “corporeal turn” away from strict Petrarchanism  and  Neoplatonism.  Authors  include Pietro Aretino, Marsilio Ficino, Antonio Vignali, Baldessare Castiglione, Tullia d’Aragona, Veronica Franca, François Rabelais, Louise Labé, Michel de Montaigne, Pierre de Brantôme, Philip Sidney, Thomas Nashe and John Donne. [more]Instructor: Professor Victoria Kahn An introduction to one of the great ages of English literature, focusing on works by Francis Bacon, John Donne, Ben Jonson, George Herbert, Thomas Hobbes, Andrew Marvell, Thomas Hobbes, John Milton, Robert Herrick, Lucy Hutchinson, Anne Halkett. We will discuss the relationship between literature and the court of James I, the explosion of pamphlet literature during the English civil war, the controversy over gender roles, the texts surrounding the regicide of Charles I, and the political, religious, and sexual radicalism of dissenting literary culture. We will also take up the question of the different ways in which Renaissance humanism and the literary culture of the Reformation contributed to the flowering of vernacular literature in seventeenth-century England. Secondary reading in Fish, Patterson, Cummings, Braden, Hutson, Lewalski, Strier, Whigham, Hill et al. [more]Instructor: Professors Déborah Blocker and Diego Pirillo This seminar introduces students to the fundamentals of book history (the invention of the printing press, the material forms of the book, and the development and control of the book market), but also to what in the field is now called scribal culture, that is the continued circulation of manuscripts during the age of the printing press and, more generally, the lasting and constant competition between books and manuscripts in the high culture of early modern Europe. The class mainly investigates the development of the book and manuscript markets in light of the larger question of how the Renaissance and the early modern period came to terms with the ‘overload of information’ that marked the early age of print, adopting new strategies to gather, store and appropriate knowledge. Particular attention will be dedicated to examining how information (mundane, political, literary and artistic, scientific, etc.) was produced and circulated, the guises under which it travelled, the ways in which it was policed and how it was received.   [more]Instructor: Professor Albert R. Ascoli This course will be devoted to a study of the latter half of Dante’s career, particular the Divina Commedia (read in its entirety, but with selective emphases), but also the Latin works (letters; Monarchia; Eclogues) of the later years.  Our focus will be on the problematics of poetic authorship (and readership) and political/ecclesiastical authority that emerge full-blown in the period.  This course is, ideally, the continuation of the fall semester seminar on Dante before the Commedia, but may be taken on its own.  Dante’s works will be viewed through the filter of a series of pertinent late medieval contexts: including the emergence of a romance vernacular canon; proto-humanistic valorization of classical Latin literature; the rhetorical, philosophical and theological traditions; the shifting macro- and micro-politico-social order. [more]Instructor: Professor Sophie Volpp Course description to be announced. [more]Instructor: Professor David Landreth An introduction to the study of Shakespeare at the graduate level. We'll examine a range of contemporary approaches to Shakespeare's plays and poems, and consider how they emerge from longstanding preoccupations across four hundred years of critical reception. I've ordered the Norton Shakespeare at the bookstore, but you may use any recent edition of the texts. [more]Instructor: Professor Joanna Picciotto We will explore techniques developed by scientists, theologians, and poets to represent other life forms. Contexts we’ll investigate include encounters with new-world flora and fauna, the invention of the microscope, and contemporary debates over reproduction and the possibility of extra-terrestrial life. Alongside questions related to medium and genre, we’ll consider when the representation of other creatures becomes representation in an almost political sense, casting the animal as a voiceless subject on whose behalf (and from whose “place”) the author tries to speak. We will also track how new approaches to the physical investigation of animals and plants affected their traditional status as natural symbols (of various vices and virtues, for example). Finally, we will consider the special challenges and opportunities posed by representing creatures that continued to elude empirical study, such as angels. [more]Instructor: Professor Susan Maslan Theater was France’s pre-eminent art form from the seventeenth through the early nineteenth centuries. Theater was also a public, collective social experience as well as a cultural institution often in contention with other institutions—religious and political. We will study some major plays of the 17th and 18th centuries (Corneille, Racine, Moliere, Marivaux, Voltaire, Beaumarchais). We will seek to understand some of the important literary and aesthetic stakes of these works, as well as to investigate the social and political history of the theater (organization of theater troupes, audiences and their social composition, censorship practices, etc.). We will think about the role and the effects of genre (tragedy vs. comedy; the rise of “drame”). We will study contemporary debates about the theater and trace theater’s importance as a crucible for the formation and expression of public opinion. [more]Instructor: Professor Jonathan Sheehan This course provides an intensive introduction to early modern European intellectual culture. It focuses both on the questions that animated intellectual inquiry and the frameworks inside of which this inquiry was pursued. Major topics will include: humanism and the humanities, politics and political thought, practices of theological inquiry, philology and the historical sciences, genre and the history of the book, the topography of intellectual life (universities, networks, academies), and the sciences of culture in an age of discovery. Many weeks will engage a substantial primary text. Authors may include: Valla, Machiavelli, Erasmus, Acosta, Luther, Calvin, Teresa of Avila, Bodin, Lipsius, Grotius, Bacon, Hobbes, and others.           [more]Instructor: Professor Henrike Christiane Lange This graduate seminar opens a wide historiographic panorama on Botticelli’s life and works from his time to the present day. Following the participants’ interests, we will focus with increasing intensity on the nineteenth-century making of Botticelli (Pater, Ruskin, the Pre-Raphaelites), on the early modern sources (from the first anonymous notes to Vasari), and their reading in the late nineteenth century (Aby Warburg’s 1893 dissertation, Sandro Botticellis “Geburt der Venus” und “Frühling”: Eine Untersuchung über die Vorstellungen von der Antike in der italienischen Frührenaissance) to the late twentieth century’s theoretical approaches to Botticelli’s intensely erotic, devastatingly beautiful, and at times likewise devastatingly violent imagery (Georges Didi-Huberman’s 1999 Ouvrir Vénus: Nudité, rêve, cruauté). [more]Instructor: Professors Elizabeth Honig  This seminar considers how group identification was formed, and what defined exclusion from those groups, in northern Europe of the early- to mid-16th century.  We will focus in particular on two questions integral to a renaissance conception of social belonging: the normative body and physical othering (deportment, disability, the racially other), and dwelling vs. a state of placelessness (vagrants, beggars, itinerant artists, other sorts of travelers).  We will put pressure on the paintings of Flemish painter Pieter Bruegel as the testimony of an artist thinking deeply about what it meant to belong, or not, in renaissance Europe, and we will read English and Flemish primary texts and documents about the disabled, vagrants, and soldiers; travel literature and 'underworld' texts; and modern theories of community, dwelling, embodiment and disability. No foreign language reading will be necessary.

This is a graduate/undergraduate seminar. Permission of the instructor is required; if possible, please contact me at elizahonig@yahoo.com by mid-August as there will be assigned readings for the first meeting. This class may be taken for 2 units (without research component) or for 4. [more]Instructor: Professor Albert R. Ascoli Francis Petrarch has, more than any other single figure, served the emblematic purposes of those attempting to define the Renaissance. If it is no longer possible to think of him (or anyone) as the “first modern man person,” we cannot deny his initiating role in both Renaissance lyric poetry in the vernacular and the Latin Humanist reclamation project, not to mention his early, influential contributions to characteristic early modern forms of representation (the sonnet sequence, the Triumph, the pastoral, the diatribe, both biography and autobiography, and, perhaps most notably of all, the epistolary collection). This course will take as its loose focal point Petrarch’s lesser-known late gathering of letters, the Seniles, or Letters of Old Age, as we explore Renaissance conceptions of the human life span as these interact with the construction of cultural histories. As is well known, the medieval-early modern concept of the shape of a human life differs considerably from our own. From Dante’s “New Life” to Shakespeare’s “Seven Ages of Man.” From this perspective, Petrarch offers an exemplary “case” as he filters available classical (Cicero, De Senectute) and Christian (the Pauline “homo vetus”) discourses on old age, while grappling with the existential crisis represented by his own deterioriating body, the failures of contemporary medicine, and the struggle to find a life after death in the fame he hopes his works will bring him (as in the famous closing entry in the collection, his Letter to Posterity. In closing we will look at works from the later Renaissance that ring changes on the theme of old age, including Montaigne’s Essais and Shakespeare’s King Lear. [more]Instructor: Professor David Landreth Sidney wrote that a poet's task was to "grow in effect another nature." No poet in English has fulfilled that charge more luxuriantly than Spenser. The plan of the semester will be to roam around in the leisurely, delight-filled capaciousness of The Faerie Queene, with the aim that each of us find herself at home somewhere in this alienated version of our own world. The tension between delight and didacticism, leisure and urgency, is central to any such accommodation; I'm also interested in questions of materiality and of landscape in the fiction, and I expect our inquiries will be shaped by your preoccupations as well. We'll take some detours into the shorter poems along the way, and we will try too to reckon with the genocidal despair by which Spenser articulates the project of making a home in the alien terrain of Ireland. [more]Instructor: Professor Timothy Hampton This seminar will offer an extended engagement with the work of the greatest writer of prose narrative in the European Renaissance, François Rabelais.  Through a reading of the work of Rabelais and several of his humanist contemporaries (Erasmus, Marot, Dolet, Marguerite de Navarre) we will pay special attention to the changing strategies of reading and interpretation that shape the genesis of modern "literature" in the sixteenth century.  We will read primary texts in dialogue with a number of essays about both the history of reading practices and hermeneutics.  Of central interest will be how certain features of the discourse we call "literature," as well as certain humanistic discipines familiar to us today, are sketched out as responses to early modern political and theological disputes.  Among the quetions to be asked:  Can one read with the body?  Is muteness discursive?  Can invisible writing be literary?   [more]Instructor: Professor Todd Olson This seminar will examine art historical theories and critical tools concerning the transmission, circulation and translation of images, artifacts, performances and visual technologies. The seminar’s readings and studies will focus on the special case of colonial Latin American, Spanish Empire, and the trans-Atlantic world. In addition to reading the recent literature in this temporal and geographic field (Cummins, Leibsohn, Mundy, Seed among others), the seminar will consider the latent potential of modes of art historical explanation that have addressed the persistence of images and the role of materiality in representation (Semper, Riegl, Warburg, Kubler). Emphasis will be placed on developing transposable models by studying transcultural historical phenomena that have been structured by a variety of legacies including Greco-Roman antiquity, Arabic epistemologies, the representation of Islam (Reconquista), indigenous pictorial survivals, cross-cultural scribal practices and biological metaphor (mestizaje) by different early modern (imperial) constituencies.  [more]Instructor: Professor Henrike Christiane Lange The seminar Trionfi/Triumphs will examine a variety of triumphal gestures in history: Rites, processions, monuments, and iconographies from ancient Roman triumphs to the present day. Stations of this cultural history investigation include: Ancient arches and their decoration, booty and spolia, Christian medieval adaptations in rites and reliquaries, Renaissance triumphs in painting, print, and literature (Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio), iconic imagery of triumphs (Mantegna, Dürer, Rubens), the Latino tradition of religious processions, operatic adaptations, Fascist triumphal imagery under the direction of Mussolini and Leni Riefenstahl, and other modern examples oftriumphs and reversals in contemporary Italian cinema such as in Roberto Benigni’s La vita è bella. [more]Instructor: Professor Mairi McLaughlin This course covers the history of the French language from its Latin roots through to contemporary usage. Both internal and external history will be considered so that students acquire a firm grounding in the linguistic evolution of the language, coupled with an understanding of its development in relation to a range of social and cultural phenomena. The course will be structured around our analysis of the wide range of texts from different genres presented by Ayres-Bennett (1996) and which date from 842 CE to the present day. We will use the relatively new historical sociolinguistic approach to try to capture what Anthony Lodge (2009) has called “une image multidimensionnelle de la langue du passé”. [more]Instructor: Professor Paige Romance vs. novel.  It's one of the most basic distinctions in literary history, and it goes back a good 350 years:  the old, obsolete form is replaced by the modern.  But is the narrative sound?  We'll be reading a selection of classic and recent criticism on the topic and five celebrated works that may or may not document the transition from romance to novel: d'Urfé's L'Astrée, Sorel’s Francion, Scarron's Le Roman comique, and two works by Lafayette, Zayde and La Princesse de Clèves. All primary and most secondary works will be available in English for those who need the option. [more]Instructor: Professor Ethan Shagan This course is an introduction for graduate students to society and politics in England, focused on the seventeenth century but more broadly covering the years 1500-1800. We will read recent secondary scholarship, almost entirely published since the year 2000 and much of it published in the last few years, in order to introduce students to current trends and debates in the field. My interest is particularly to problematize the traditional distinction between social history and political history, emphasizing that these fields have converged around issues of power, hierarchy, and the public maintenance of order. [more]Instructor: Professor Diego Pirillo Is there an Italian Theory? What are its origins and the reasons for its popularity outside of Italy? Why do most of its protagonists, regardless of their philosophical positions, share a tense and troubled relationship with political (and religious) power? The seminar will address these and other questions and introduce students to the most important figures of modern and contemporary Italian thought. Readings will include not only Antonio Gramsci and Giorgio Agamben but a wide selection of classic authors, such as Benedetto Croce, Giovanni Gentile, Norberto Bobbio, Ernesto de Martino, Adriana Cavarero and Antonio Negri. Particular attention will be given to the Italian debate on the ‘political’ (borrowing the concept from Carl Schmitt) and to the relationship between theory and politics that marked Italian philosophy from Fascism to the cold war era until today.

 [more]Instructor: Professor Timothy Hampton Baroque culture is the first instance in the West of a "global" cultural movement. It also offers the first example of an artistic moment that is truly interdisciplinary. In this seminar we will study the emergence and development of Baroque literature and thought, beginning at the end of the sixteenth century, from Rome to Mexico. Our approach will have two aspects. On the one hand, we will want to identify and study certain key features of Baroque culture, across languages, continents, and media, working out, as it were, a kind of topography of culture and politics. We will focus on such themes as the theatricalization of power, the role of allegory, the question of a Baroque "style," imperial and urban experience, and the intersection of arts and disciplines. At the same time, however, we will be interested in the curious history of the "Baroque" in modern critical thought, from the appearance of the term in Art Historical writing at the end of the 19th century (Wöfflin, Burkhardt), through the various nationalist Baroques of the mid-twentieth, the neo-Baroque of certain post-War novelists (Carpentier, Simon), to the critical redemption of Baroque culture for our own moment by the work of Walter Benjamin and Gilles Deleuze. [more]Instructor: Professor David Marno In this survey, we follow how authors from Francesco Petrarca and Thomas More to John Donne participated in the grand cultural project of the Renaissance, ostensibly defined by the belief that consuming and producing culture would elevate human beings above their natural state. Many of our authors supported the project; some opposed it fervently. But willingly or not, everyone we read during the semester contributed to it, if only by virtue of recording their impressions, thoughts, feelings, and fancies in writing. In addition to the works of Petrarca, Wyatt, Philip and Mary Sidney, Spenser, Shakespeare, and Donne, among others, we will also explore how scholarly views about the Renaissance as a cultural project have changed and developed from Jacob Burckhardt’s The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy to New Historicism and beyond. [more]Instructor: Professor Vicki Kahn The history of Western literary theory is often told in terms of the concept of mimesis. But there is another, equally powerful, anti-mimetic strand to this history, and that is the critique of mimesis as a form of idolatry. In this course, we will explore this critique from the prohibition against images in the Hebrew bible up through modern attacks on mimesis as inherently ideological. Our main literary texts in the first half of the semester will be taken from Reformation England, when there was a fierce debate about the harmful power of images and the necessity of iconoclasm. We will focus on works by Calvin, Luther, Marlowe, Bacon, Shakespeare, and Milton. In the second half of the semester, we will discuss the afterlife of iconoclasm in Marx, Freud, Althusser, Zizek, Adorno, Terry Eagleton, and Isobel Armstrong. Students whose interests lie primarily in national literatures other than English are welcome, and may write their final papers on primary texts and literatures not discussed in class, though they must engage the theoretical texts assigned for the seminar. [more]Instructor: Professor Déborah Blocker In 1598, the Edict of Nantes puts an end to France’s wars of religion. In its wake, Catholicism is revivified, via the founding of a number of Counter-Reformation orders and movements, all competing to rekindle the Catholic faith. These attempts to re-evangelize France hinged on preaching, but were also increasingly dependent on printed works. They were aimed at a lay and even mundane readership, which was increasingly avid of literary works, such as plays, short stories and novels. This seminar examines how Counter-Reformation evangelism shaped France’s emerging literary market, studying how spirituality and literature were thereby configured as separate yet tightly connected practices.  [more]Instructor: Professor Ethan Shagan History 275 is the foundational course for graduate students in the history of early modern Europe from the Renaissance to the French Revolution.  This year, rather than surveying disconnected subjects, I have decided to organize the syllabus around the theme “Forms and Functions of Early Modern Politics.” This is capacious enough to include a wide range of interconnected topics: state formation; empire; gender and power; popular politics; the general crisis of the seventeenth century; political culture; church-state relations; and much else besides.  Readings will consist of secondary scholarship covering many different parts of (mostly Western) Europe from the fifteenth to the eighteenth centuries, supplemented by primary sources in political theory from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment. [more]Instructor: Professor Todd Olson This seminar will explore the early modern origins of three closely interrelated stylistic categories, the Gothic, grotesque, and arabesque, and the ways in which they engage with the perceived alterity of ornament.  Both the Gothic and grotesque were defined in terms of bodily deformity, femininity, perverse hybridity, and lack of regulation and control, and used to characterize the foreignness of the arabesque, and vice versa.  This course will interrogate the anxieties (and perhaps latent desires) underlying the formation and perception of these categories, including xenophobia, misogyny, and fear of the irrational and exotic.  We will closely examine illustrated books, prints, and buildings of the early modern world (e.g. France, Italy, colonial Latin America, South Asia).  The seminar will draw from other fields (such as anthropology and ethnomathematics) to consider the persistence of these categories in the uncontrollable reproduction and dissemination of ornament. [more]Instructor: Professor Diego Pirillo ‘Inglese italianato è un diavolo incarnato’ (an Italianate Englishman is a devil incarnate), Roger Ascham famously said in the Schoolmaster (1570), blaming the ‘Italianate Englishmen’ for spending their time reading Petrarch and Machiavelli rather than the Bible. Despite Ascham’s attack on the ‘Italianate Englishmen’, the influence of Renaissance Italy in early modern England remained wide and persistent, as is clear to any reader of the Merchant of Venice or Romeo and Juliet. This seminar will not simply look at Shakespeare’s Italian sources but will investigate more broadly the Tudor and Stuart encounter with Renaissance Italy, examining its cultural, religious and political implications. Special attention will be given not only to canonical authors (Shake-speare, Sidney, Bacon, Machiavelli, Castiglione, Ariosto, Bruno, Montaigne and others) but also to the system through which books were disseminated and received, bringing to light the crucial role played by publishers, translators, readers, censors and other cultural go-betweens. The entire seminar will be hosted by the Bancroft Library and will give students the opportunity to access its collections and to learn new methodologies for the study of books as material objects. [more]Instructor: Professor Ivonne del Valle According to Max Weber the spirit of Protestantism made possible the emergence of capitalism proper. In his recounting, Spain’s imperial/colonial experience could be bracketed as a previous and/or different moment, what Marx termed primitive accumulation. Without negating that the 16th and 17th centuries in the Americas (one of the central vantage points of the course) could be rightfully considered in such a way, we will study how religion and economy intermingled, clashed, and related to each other in an enterprise in which they were the central, directing forces (evangelization/exploitation of people and resources).

Focusing on Spain’s Catholic version of the economy we will investigate violence and its justification, religious metaphors and ideology, as well as the processes of rationalization and discipline, ordering that accompanied the expansion of Christianity, in order to understand the particular forms the economy took under early modern/colonial Catholicism and the cultural, social forms that accompanied it.  
 [more]These courses may be of interest to students in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies; however, they will not count toward the DE.Instructor: Professor Albert R. Ascoli This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Our aim will be to situate Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando furioso, the most widely read literary text of the sixteenth century, at a pivotal place within an array of literary, cultural, and socio-political histories. Most prominently, from a literary-historical point of view, the Furioso may be situated within two genealogies that are often read in opposition to one another: the Renaissance recuperation of classical epic poetry in the Virgilian (and Homeric) mode through a filter of chivalric romance (culminating in Tasso and Milton), and the early modern passage from romance, novella, and other late medieval genres to what would become the literary genre par excellence in centuries to come, the novel (the first great exemplars being Rabelais’ Gargantua and Pantagruel and Cervantes’ Don Quixote). The course will begin with a survey of classical, late medieval and early Renaissance precursors of the Furioso (most notably the Aeneid and Boiardo’s Innamoramento di Orlando) and conclude with some weeks dedicated to genealogical aftermath of the Furioso, above all in Tasso’s Gerusalemme Liberata. The “body” of the course will, needless to say, be dedicated to a close study of the Furioso itself.Students are expected to attend and participate regularly. There will be occasional in-class presentations and some shorter writing assignments. The principal assignment for the course is a research paper of ca. 6000 words (ca. 25 pages). Topics must be closely related to the concerns of the course although they may focus on authors and texts not directly treated in seminar (whether from Italy or another national/linguistic tradition). Students enrolled for two credits will not write a final essay, but will complete all other course assignments, plus two shorter papers (ca. 5 pages) over the course of the semester.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professors Déborah Blocker and Diego Pirillo This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS.  It may also count as an elective.
This seminar introduces students to the fundamentals of book history (the invention of the printing press, the material forms of the book, and the development and control of the book market), but also to what in the field is now called scribal culture, that is the continued circulation of manuscripts during the age of the printing press and, more generally, the lasting and constant competition between books and manuscripts in the high culture of early modern Europe. The class mainly investigates the development of the book and manuscript markets in light of the larger question of how the Renaissance and the early modern period came to terms with the ‘overload of information’ that marked the early age of print, adopting new strategies to gather, store and appropriate knowledge. Particular attention will be dedicated to examining how information (mundane, political, literary and artistic, scientific, etc.) was produced and circulated, the guises under which it travelled, the ways in which it was policed and how it was received.This seminar also has a practical purpose, which is to make students more capable of finding, describing, and adequately using the print and manuscript sources they will need to study in the context of their dissertations. All classes take place in the Bancroft Library and students will be exposed to a variety of rare materials during most sessions of the seminar. We also learn how to analyze and describe rare these documents (bibliographical description) and we discuss how libraries and archives developed and are currently organized when it comes to early modern materials. Finally, the course addresses the question of the growing availability of early modern print and manuscript sources over the internet, both investigating how they can be located and discussing the drawbacks of studying such materials in immaterial formats.This course will be useful both to students of literature (in French, Italian, English, Spanish and Portuguese or German, as many of the fundamentals of book and information history are similar across Europe) and to historians in general. Historians of art, music and philosophy will also find the course of interest, given how important rare books and manuscripts sources now are for these fields as well.The course deals with Europe as a whole and is taught entirely in English and, but many of the rare books and manuscripts studied are in French or in Italian, because of the instructors’ current specializations. For those students wishing to do the assigned bibliography exercises on either French or Italian materials a reasonable reading knowledge of French and/or Italian is needed. For those students possessing reading knowledge neither of French nor of Italian, alternative bibliography exercises in either English, German, Hebrew, Latin and/or Ancient Greek can be set up, in consultation with the instructors. All students will however be required to read all secondary readings in the English language, even when mostly French and/or Italian materials are discussed therein.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Ivonne del Valle This course fulfills the Intellectual History requirement for the DE in REMS.  It may also count as an elective.In this seminar we will explore some of the aesthetic and sociopolitical debates linked to the term “Baroque.” Even though in the case of the Americas, many studies situate the emergence of the Baroque in European settings that later on “exported” its form and style to the Indies, we will contemplate connecting the Baroque’s rhetorical style to 16th century debates about the new territories, and to the role of the colonial experience in the development of aesthetics and politics on the other side of the Atlantic. We will study thinkers who explicitly connect the Baroque with modernity.  The course will be centered on Baroque texts from New Spain (and perhaps Peru), though we will also read texts produced in Spain. In addition, we will read representative texts of the political, religious, and philosophical thinking of the period (Loyola, Descartes, Leibniz) as well as contemporary literary theorists who help us understand the Baroque as either a historical period or a general style (Echeverria, Deleuze).Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Albert Ascoli This course fulfills the Intellectual History requirement for the DE in REMS.  It may also count as an elective.
To fulfill the DE requirement, the course must be taken for 4 credits.A dated and yet not entirely discarded cliché calls Petrarch the “first modern man,” and the pervasive influence of Petrarch on both the growth of Latin Humanism and lyric Petrarchism in the 15th and 16th centuries is widely acknowledged.  The thesis of this course (and of a conference that will also be held during fall 2013) is that Petrarch’s contemporary, friend and follower, Giovanni Boccaccio, had an influence no less pervasive—indeed perhaps far more so—but far less widely considered by the scholarship.  Boccaccio, to begin with, plays a critical role in the Renaissance reception and diffusion of the works of both Petrarch and their illustrious precursor, Dante, as well as in the repackaging and expansion of the classical literary canon.  Boccaccio’s Decameron, of course, generated a flourishing early modern tradition of proto-novelistic short-story collections (think of Marguerite de Navarre and Cervantes), but also provided substantial material for the nascent dramatic tradition (from Machiavelli’s Mandragola to Shakespeare’s All’s Well).  His biographical collection, Of Famous Women, was an indispensable source and model for the wide-spread debates on the status of women.  His Genealogy of the Gentile Gods was a staple of the Renaissance mythographical tradition.  His geographical treatises continued to make an impact even as the map of the world underwent a remarkable series of changes.  And so on and on.  The aim of this course is not simply to take note of the various ways in which Boccaccio’s oeuvre lived on “in itself” and in its influence throughout European early modernity, but also to reflect on the cultural project and authorial “subject position” that made “Boccaccism” at once ubiquitous and invisible from the 14th century to the 17th. Course requirements: Students are expected to attend and participate regularly.  There will be occasional in-class presentations and some shorter writing assignments.  Students will also be expected to attend and actively participate in the international conference, “A Boccaccian Renaissance?” planned for October 24-26, 2013.  The principal assignment for the course is a research paper of ca. 6000 words (20-25 pages), an advanced draft of which will be presented to the seminar during the final weeks of the semester.  Topics must be closely related to the concerns of the course although they may focus on authors, texts and issues not directly treated in seminar.Prerequisites:  Graduate standing; consent of the instructor.Course Conducted in EnglishReading Knowledge of Italian highly desirable, but not required; reading knowledge of French, Spanish, and/or Latin very useful.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Henrike Christiane Lange This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This graduate seminar opens a wide historiographic panorama on Botticelli’s life and works from his time to the present day. Following the participants’ interests, we will focus with increasing intensity on the nineteenth-century making of Botticelli (Pater, Ruskin, the Pre-Raphaelites), on the early modern sources (from the first anonymous notes to Vasari), and their reading in the late nineteenth century (Aby Warburg’s 1893 dissertation, Sandro Botticellis “Geburt der Venus” und “Frühling”: Eine Untersuchung über die Vorstellungen von der Antike in der italienischen Frührenaissance) to the late twentieth century’s theoretical approaches to Botticelli’s intensely erotic, devastatingly beautiful, and at times likewise devastatingly violent imagery (Georges Didi-Huberman’s 1999 Ouvrir Vénus: Nudité, rêve, cruauté).We will discuss themes of the body and nature, allegories, Antiquity, nudity, heroes, Madonne, Rome as commemorated in Botticelli’s Sistine Chapel frescoes, Dante as imagined in Botticelli’s illustrations for the Divine Comedy, the Medici and Savonarola as major factors in the social fabric around the artist, his graphic work, his mannerism, and the responses to Botticelli in the twentieth century (from the spheres of advertising to Andy Warhol). With the last chapter, we will enter the current discussions of the innovative exhibit “Botticelli Reimagined” (organised by the V&A and the Gemäldegalerie – Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, on view in London 5 March 2016 – 3 July 2016). This most recent exhibit on Botticelli involves Andy Warhol, Cindy Sherman, and Bill Viola as well as those earlier artistic responses to Botticelli by Edward Burne-Jones, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Edgar Degas, and René Magritte.While the course aims at increasing the awareness for the different historiographic lenses one is used to look at early modern artists in general, it is in constant dialogue with the works. Botticelli’s paintings will therefore appear in a likewise reflected sequence of different art historical approaches, from the material study of the conservator’s perspective to iconographical analysis with appropriate biblical and ancient sources, and approaches from theory. At the end of the course, we will have developed a more complex and more complete image of Botticelli’s works on the one hand, and of the long history of writings about these works on the other hand.The course will be held in English; all required readings are in English. Additional readings in Italian, German, French, and Spanish will be discussed in class according to the participants’ individual levels of reading knowledge in these languages.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Ignacio Navarrete This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This class is designed to help graduate students develop their own reading and interpretation of Don Quijote. Emphasis will be on close reading of the novel; among the topics to be considered are the relationship between Don Quijote and the origins and development of the modern novel, as well as views on love, beauty, freedom, religion, empire, justice, duty, verisimilitude, poetic theory, and many other topics. In addition to the text of the novel, each week there will be selections from sources, criticism, and theories of the novel. The course is open to students who have not previously read the Quijote; they will be expected to write several interpretative essays. Those who are already familiar with the novel can do more extended reading in the criticism, leading to a research paper.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Ivonne del Valle This course fulfills the Intellectual History or elective requirement for the DE in REMS.According to Max Weber the spirit of Protestantism made possible the emergence of capitalism proper. In his recounting, Spain’s imperial/colonial experience could be bracketed as a previous and/or different moment, what Marx termed primitive accumulation. Without negating that the 16th and 17th centuries in the Americas (one of the central vantage points of the course) could be rightfully considered in such a way, we will study how religion and economy intermingled, clashed, and related to each other in an enterprise in which they were the central, directing forces (evangelization/exploitation of people and resources).Focusing on Spain’s Catholic version of the economy we will investigate violence and its justification, religious metaphors and ideology, as well as the processes of rationalization and discipline, ordering that accompanied the expansion of Christianity, in order to understand the particular forms the economy took under early modern/colonial Catholicism and the cultural, social forms that accompanied it.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Ivonne del Valle This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Recent work of environmental historians has demonstrated how Spanish America underwent drastic changes during the colonial period. From the desertification of 20% of what is now Mexico to the traces of pollution found in the ice caps of the Andes due to mining, it would appear that, since the 16th century, the relationship between technology and economic activity had a detrimental impact on the “New World” natural environment which is only now beginning to be studied. By the same token, it could be argued that entire populations underwent equally drastic changes, some of them related to technological and economic enterprises (such as mining), others related to more subtle interventions (religious conversion, the learning of Spanish and alphabetic writing, etc.). If, as in the latter case, new methods (evangelization, training in alphabetic writing, etc.) were devised as means to particular ends (conversion, transformation), we could consider that the whole colonial enterprise became a moment in which technology was potentialized, radicalized.In this course, we will undertake two tasks:Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Kinch Hoekstra This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Tues 2:10-5, 2240 Piedmont, 3 units, CCN 49655This is a seminar in the history of political and legal theory. We will explore the idea of fundamental law, illegal laws, mixed government and divided sovereignty, the development of checks and balances, and the very idea of a constitution. We will touch briefly on the Athenian and Roman constitutions, and will read texts by Aquinas, Dante, Francisco Suarez, Johannes Althusius, Edward Coke, Charles I, William Prynne, James Harrington, Locke, and Montesquieu, and documents including Magna Carta, the Petition of Right, and the Answer to the 19 Propositions.http://www.law.berkeley.edu/php-programs/courses/coursePage.php?cID=10282  Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Todd Olson This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS. It may also count as an elective.
This seminar will examine art historical theories and critical tools concerning the transmission, circulation and translation of images, artifacts, performances and visual technologies. The seminar’s readings and studies will focus on the special case of colonial Latin American, Spanish Empire, and the trans-Atlantic world. In addition to reading the recent literature in this temporal and geographic field (Cummins, Leibsohn, Mundy, Seed among others), the seminar will consider the latent potential of modes of art historical explanation that have addressed the persistence of images and the role of materiality in representation (Semper, Riegl, Warburg, Kubler). Emphasis will be placed on developing transposable models by studying transcultural historical phenomena that have been structured by a variety of legacies including Greco-Roman antiquity, Arabic epistemologies, the representation of Islam (Reconquista), indigenous pictorial survivals, cross-cultural scribal practices and biological metaphor (mestizaje) by different early modern (imperial) constituencies.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Ethan Shagan This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Fri 2-4, 211 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 39714History 275B is the foundational course in the history of early modern Europe from roughly 1400 to 1800, or from the Renaissance through the French Revolution. The course offers an intensive introduction to major themes and historiographical debates and aims to develops graduate students’ skills in historical criticism. It is intended for graduate students in the history department with EME as their first or second field; other graduate students may take the course with permission of the instructor.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Ethan Shagan This course fulfills the Intellectual History or elective requirement for the DE in REMS.History 275 is the foundational course for graduate students in the history of early modern Europe from the Renaissance to the French Revolution. This year, rather than surveying disconnected subjects, I have decided to organize the syllabus around the theme “Forms and Functions of Early Modern Politics.” This is capacious enough to include a wide range of interconnected topics: state formation; empire; gender and power; popular politics; the general crisis of the seventeenth century; political culture; church-state relations; and much else besides. Readings will consist of secondary scholarship covering many different parts of (mostly Western) Europe from the fifteenth to the eighteenth centuries, supplemented by primary sources in political theory from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Susan Maslan This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Theater was France’s pre-eminent art form from the seventeenth through the early nineteenth centuries. Theater was also a public, collective social experience as well as a cultural institution often in contention with other institutions—religious and political. We will study some major plays of the 17th and 18th centuries (Corneille, Racine, Moliere, Marivaux, Voltaire, Beaumarchais). We will seek to understand some of the important literary and aesthetic stakes of these works, as well as to investigate the social and political history of the theater (organization of theater troupes, audiences and their social composition, censorship practices, etc.). We will think about the role and the effects of genre (tragedy vs. comedy; the rise of “drame”). We will study contemporary debates about the theater and trace theater’s importance as a crucible for the formation and expression of public opinion.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor David Marno This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.In this survey, we follow how authors from Francesco Petrarca and Thomas More to John Donne participated in the grand cultural project of the Renaissance, ostensibly defined by the belief that consuming and producing culture would elevate human beings above their natural state. Many of our authors supported the project; some opposed it fervently. But willingly or not, everyone we read during the semester contributed to it, if only by virtue of recording their impressions, thoughts, feelings, and fancies in writing. In addition to the works of Petrarca, Wyatt, Philip and Mary Sidney, Spenser, Shakespeare, and Donne, among others, we will also explore how scholarly views about the Renaissance as a cultural project have changed and developed from Jacob Burckhardt’s The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy to New Historicism and beyond.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor James Grantham Turner This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.A sampling of sixteenth-century discourses of sexuality, theories of Eros, artworks and writings about the erotic in art, from major male and female authors in Italy, France and England. The aim is to test the hypothesis of my recent research – that an “erotic revolution” transformed Italian art and art writing – and to explore how far it applies to other literatures. For a brief period, after 1500 and before the Counter-Reformation, arousal could be interpreted as a positive experience that yielded new ways of seeing and producing art, at the center rather than the margins of the culture. Some of the texts we will read are openly libertine or obscenely explicit, others develop the amorous sonnet and the philosophical love-treatise in more elevated language, but all manifest the “corporeal turn” away from strict Petrarchanism and Neoplatonism. Authors include Pietro Aretino, Marsilio Ficino, Antonio Vignali, Baldessare Castiglione, Tullia d’Aragona, Veronica Franca, François Rabelais, Louise Labé, Michel de Montaigne, Pierre de Brantôme, Philip Sidney, Thomas Nashe and John Donne.The first half of the semester will focus on art and writing in Italy, typified by the range of Aretino’s letters, poems and dialogues – from high aesthetics to (literal) pornography. The emphasis will be on primary texts and images, but to frame the conversation I will also designate passages from my recently completed book manuscript Eros Visible, which I describe as “a broad, synthetic history of this ‘sex-positive’ phase of the Renaissance, when lascivious became a neutral or endearing term, when sculpture was valued for ‘filling every viewer’s mind with libido’ (Aretino) and beauty was discovered in earthly rather than‘celestial’ love. Even more than beauty artists strove for the living quality of the image, ‘awakening’ and reanimating the Classical models they studied, and erotic response was the best guarantee of vitality. In this stimulating moment artists’ discoveries and writers’ ideas fed each other. Patrons and critics who valued ‘profane’ Eros more highly also encouraged sensuous intensity and sexual subject-matter. Recovering libertine art is only one element in this revolution, however. I explore the increasing emphasis on erotic passion in Renaissance art theory, which challenged artists to depict states of intense feeling and to evolve sensuous techniques that ‘melt’ or ‘penetrate’ the viewer likewise. My subject is not so much sex in the explicit sense as Eros in general – the evocation of desire in and for art.”All texts will be taught in English, with originals in Italian, Latin or French on hand. 203- series courses are designed as exploratory “proseminars” or “readings” and may be taken by specialists and non-specialists, either as a survey (with paper topics on core texts or images from the syllabus) or as a research seminar. You may choose to write two shorter papers (note deadlines below) or one longer paper. Except for paperback editions of the Vignali, Aretino Dialogues, Labé and Nashe texts listed below, ALL course materials will be available in electronic form for download from bCourses, and include high-resolution images of the erotic engraving series I Modi and The Loves of the Gods, together with paintings by Titian, Parmigianino, Bronzino and Michelangelo. To pursue secondary reading, begin with the endnotes of Eros Visible, which can be mined electronically to generate a bibliography of the Italian part; other suggestions will be made once your individual interests become clearer.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Déborah Blocker This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Th 10-1, 4226 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 32547This seminar introduces students to the historiography of early modern French society (1600-1800), by comparing modern historiographical writings on the topic to a variety of literary texts ­ plays, novels, mémoires and social satire ­ from the 17th and 18th centuries, which depict early modern French society or reflect on particular social problems. It asks not only what was French society in the Old Régime, but also how did the very notion of an “Old Régime” society come into existence and in what ways is this historiographical construct still important for us today? To answer these questions, the seminar will focus on how modern historiography works to reconstruct France’s forgone social realities and what role literary productions might have played in the process. Intersections between historiography and fiction will be stressed, as well as the fact that early modern literary representations of social issues have often shaped modern historians’ perceptions of them. The seminar will pay particular attention to how literature’s growing importance in early modern French society has impacted the way historians, to this day, continue to use such literary productions to historicize pre-Revolutionary France. Historical readings are taken from the French tradition of social history, as it developed out of and around the Annales school (Pierre Goubert, Daniel Roche, Roger Chartier, Robert Descimon, etc.) as well as from the works of their Anglo-Saxon counterparts (William Beik, Nathalie Zemon Davis, Jonathan Dewald, Peter Sahlins, etc). Literary readings include excerpts from a wide variety of early modern French works. Molière’s Georges Dandin, La Fayette’s Princesse de Clèves, Marivaux’ Le Paysan Parvenu and Diderot’s La Religieuse are read in full, along with some relevant literary and historical criticism. A number of theoretical and methodological readings are also discussed (Paul Ricoeur, Jacques Rancière, Christian Jouhaud et alt., etc).No prior knowledge of early modern French society or literature is needed. This course is taught entirely in English, with readings available both in English and in French.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Diego Pirillo This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Is there an Italian Theory? What are its origins and the reasons for its popularity outside of Italy? Why do most of its protagonists, regardless of their philosophical positions, share a tense and troubled relationship with political (and religious) power? The seminar will address these and other questions and introduce students to the most important figures of modern and contemporary Italian thought. Readings will include not only Antonio Gramsci and Giorgio Agamben but a wide selection of classic authors, such as Benedetto Croce, Giovanni Gentile, Norberto Bobbio, Ernesto de Martino, Adriana Cavarero and Antonio Negri. Particular attention will be given to the Italian debate on the ‘political’ (borrowing the concept from Carl Schmitt) and to the relationship between theory and politics that marked Italian philosophy from Fascism to the cold war era until today.The course is taught in English with readings in English.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor David Landreth This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Sidney wrote that a poet’s task was to “grow in effect another nature.” No poet in English has fulfilled that charge more luxuriantly than Spenser. The plan of the semester will be to roam around in the leisurely, delight-filled capaciousness of The Faerie Queene, with the aim that each of us find herself at home somewhere in this alienated version of our own world. The tension between delight and didacticism, leisure and urgency, is central to any such accommodation; I’m also interested in questions of materiality and of landscape in the fiction, and I expect our inquiries will be shaped by your preoccupations as well. We’ll take some detours into the shorter poems along the way, and we will try too to reckon with the genocidal despair by which Spenser articulates the project of making a home in the alien terrain of Ireland. Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Todd Olson This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Th 2-5, 308 B Doe Library, 4 units, CCN 05070The Spanish born artist, who was active in Rome and Naples during the first half of the seventeenth-century, has left a series of works that are remarkable for their repetitiveness. Thumbnail photos of his oil paintings in catalogue raisonées betray obsessive repetition. This seminar will consider how figurative iteration, reversibility and material degradation in Ribera’s etchings provided an experimental practice. The seminar will also consider the late work of Caravaggio in Naples, Sicily and Malta, Ribera’s representation of torture and martyrdom, his graphic procedures, and the politics of representation in viceregal Naples.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Jonathan Sheehan This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Wed 3-6, 2303 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 39759Christianity has always oriented itself toward, and put an enormous premium on, an organizing principle of orthodoxy. In the early modern period, however, orthodoxy exploded into competing factions. Multiple orthodoxies emerged, and in their wake, a host of heterodoxies and heresies. These dynamics put enormous pressure on normative Christianity, and were powerfully generative of new forms of religious, political, and cultural life. This course will treat this period of dynamic diversification, roughly spanning 1450-1700, as a laboratory for studying the history and historiography of modern religion.Problems and topics that we will explore will include: the contested nature of orthodoxy; the problem of religious innovation; the nature of theology as an intellectual and cultural practice; the issues of ritual and ceremony in religious life; idolatry and iconoclasm as problems of religious and social order; new genres of religious writing from martyrology to heresiology; the question of atheism as both historical and historiographical subject; the discourse of toleration; and finally, most generally, the issue of secularism and secularization in the wake of European religious conflict.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Kinch Hoekstra This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.In this iteration of the course in Renaissance and Early Modern Political Thought, we will focus on a close reading of The Elements of Law (1640) by Thomas Hobbes.  This work has a similar range to that of Hobbes’s 1651 Leviathan, though with much less attention to theological and ecclesiastical matters.  The earlier weeks of the course will be devoted to a consideration of background materials that are also of intrinsic interest, including Jean Bodin’s Six Books of the Republic.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Shannon Stimson This course fulfills the Intellectual History requirement for the DE in REMS.The purpose of the seminar is to examine selected writings of crucial thinkers in the history of Renaissance and Early Modern Political Thought (Erasmus, Machiavelli, Bacon, Shakespeare, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Hume and Marx). Secondary writings accompanying each thinker will assist us in considering some of the contextual and interpretive issues of relevance to these thinkers, and in considering such problems as: counsel, authority, sovereignty, tyranny, subjection, oaths, obedience, religious toleration, forms of political participation, sociability and civil government, justice, equality, and revolution.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Mairi McLaughlin This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This course covers the history of the French language from its Latin roots through to contemporary usage. Both internal and external history will be considered so that students acquire a firm grounding in the linguistic evolution of the language, coupled with an understanding of its development in relation to a range of social and cultural phenomena. The course will be structured around our analysis of the wide range of texts from different genres presented by Ayres-Bennett (1996) and which date from 842 CE to the present day. We will use the relatively new historical sociolinguistic approach to try to capture what Anthony Lodge (2009) has called “une image multidimensionnelle de la langue du passé”.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: ProfessorsBeate Fricke and Elizabeth Honig This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.What is Mankind? How are we placed in the cosmos; what constitutes the fundamental nature of our being; and in what ways can we be elevated, inspired, socialized, and corrupted? Our ways of answering these questions are said to have undergone a fundamental shift with the advent of renaissance humanism. This course investigates the nature and extent of that shift, and asks which areas of thinking about mankind were more, and less, altered at the dawn of the modern period. Topics will include the ways in which the story of Creation was understood, the location of mankind in the universe, how law and society are formed by and set boundaries upon the fundamental nature of man, and the importance (and limits) of education. We will think about human pleasures (sinful or playful), the definition of human creativity, and how the human body and its failings are understood. We will end with death, war, and the apocalypse.Our particular focus will be on the ways in which the nature of mankind was visualized by European artists, from anonymous illuminators to Dürer, Holbein, Bosch and Bruegel, Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo. Much of our reading will be from primary sources, including Paracelsus, Bartholomaeus Anglicus, Pico della Mirandola, Machiavelli, Thomas More, Erasmus, and Montaigne, as well as writing by artists.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Vicki Kahn This course fulfills the Intellectual History or elective requirement for the DE in REMS.The history of Western literary theory is often told in terms of the concept of mimesis. But there is another, equally powerful, anti-mimetic strand to this history, and that is the critique of mimesis as a form of idolatry. In this course, we will explore this critique from the prohibition against images in the Hebrew bible up through modern attacks on mimesis as inherently ideological. Our main literary texts in the first half of the semester will be taken from Reformation England, when there was a fierce debate about the harmful power of images and the necessity of iconoclasm. We will focus on works by Calvin, Luther, Marlowe, Bacon, Shakespeare, and Milton. In the second half of the semester, we will discuss the afterlife of iconoclasm in Marx, Freud, Althusser, Zizek, Adorno, Terry Eagleton, and Isobel Armstrong. Students whose interests lie primarily in national literatures other than English are welcome, and may write their final papers on primary texts and literatures not discussed in class, though they must engage the theoretical texts assigned for the seminar.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professors Elizabeth Honig  This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This seminar considers how group identification was formed, and what defined exclusion from those groups, in northern Europe of the early- to mid-16th century.  We will focus in particular on two questions integral to a renaissance conception of social belonging: the normative body and physical othering (deportment, disability, the racially other), and dwelling vs. a state of placelessness (vagrants, beggars, itinerant artists, other sorts of travelers).  We will put pressure on the paintings of Flemish painter Pieter Bruegel as the testimony of an artist thinking deeply about what it meant to belong, or not, in renaissance Europe, and we will read English and Flemish primary texts and documents about the disabled, vagrants, and soldiers; travel literature and ‘underworld’ texts; and modern theories of community, dwelling, embodiment and disability. No foreign language reading will be necessary.This is a graduate/undergraduate seminar. Permission of the instructor is required; if possible, please contact me at elizahonig@yahoo.com by mid-August as there will be assigned readings for the first meeting. This class may be taken for 2 units (without research component) or for 4.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Victoria Kahn This course fulfills the Intellectual History requirement for the DE in REMS.Wed 2-5, 225 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 17356An introduction to Renaissance humanism, focusing on the work of Petrarch, Bruni, Salutati, Valla, Machiavelli, Castiglione, Erasmus, More, Ascham, Elyot, Lipsius, and Shakespeare. In addition, we will read some of the classics of Renaissance scholarship (Burckhardt, Kristeller, Baron, Garin, Trinkaus, Greenblatt, Cave and Greene), as well as more recent work in the field. Topics will include Renaissance theories of imitation and literary production, the revival of classical rhetoric, humanist pedagogical practices, the civic and political function of rhetoric, the transformation of political theory, the relationship between Christianity and classical culture. We will also discuss the critique of humanism both in the early modern period and in modern evaluations of Renaissance humanist pedagogy by Grafton and Jardine, Halpern, Crane, Dolven and others. Reading knowledge of Italian or Latin is particularly useful but not required.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor David Marno This course fulfills the Intellectual History requirement for the DE in REMS.“Permit me to repeat,” Adorno writes in his celebrated essay on lyric poetry’s relationship to its context, “that we are concerned not with the poet as a private person, not with his psychology or his so-called social perspective, but with the poem as a philosophical sundial telling the time of history.” In this course, we read the poetries of John Donne and T. S. Eliot to see how (or indeed whether) they tell the time of history. To raise the stakes of this exercise, we will focus on Donne’s Holy Sonnets and Eliot’s Four Quartets, ie. poems that share an investment in religion but were written under markedly different circumstances. How does a religious poem that is the product of a religious culture differ from a religious poem written in a predominantly secular society? How do poems express, resist, or ignore their immediate contexts? How do they transpose themselves in other, real of fictional contexts? And what critical tools best enable us to articulate and answer such questions? In addition to spending ample time on the poems, we will read Eliot on early modern poetry, modern critics on Donne and Eliot, and representative critical essays on lyric poetry.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Ivonne del Valle This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Mon 3-6, 210 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 86361En este curso partiremos de un planteamiento radical: el hecho de que 1492 marcó el fin de un mundo y el principio de otro, pese a que muchos de sus protagonistas de entonces y de épocas posteriores no parecen haberse dado cuenta de ello. Como sería difícil mostrar la naturaleza del cambio en todas las áreas afectadas—religión, ciencia y epistemología, tecnología, economía, derecho internacional, teoría política, etc.—nos enfocaremos principalmente en el área de derecho internacional y teoría política y sus vínculos con la religión. Las lecturas consistirán tanto en textos teóricos (Schmitt, Agamben, Foucault) como en fuentes históricas coloniales. Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Frank Bezner This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.TuTh 11-12:30, 60 Barrows, 4 units, CCN 15642This course explores one of the most creative and interesting periods in post-classical Latin literature and literary culture: the epoch of humanism and the subsequent “respublica litterarum” of the 16th and 17th centuries. We will first read extracts from Petrarchs Latin works, then focus for about a month on literary works produced in (basically) 15th-century Florence (Salutati, Bruni, Pico, Poliziano). In the last third of the course we will explore some – mainly poetic – genres (e.g. love poetry by Johannes Secundus; Milton’s Latin poems; neo-Latin epics; and some early-modern philology).   Emphasis is on translation and interpretation, but there will be a number of introductory or summarizing mini-lectures on single authors, contexts, or more general problems (as e.g. imitation and intertextuality; humanist style(s); humanist philology; modern interpretations of humanism etc.) We will also visit the Bancroft library and look at humanist manuscripts (including the single witness of an early work by Petrarch!) and early-printed books (mostly first editions of Classical authors). Altogether, the course will attempt to be an intellectual history of Renaissance culture via the reading of key literary works.   The course is aimed at diverse audiences. Classicists will be able to study the reception of classical literature in the early-modern period, a period crucial for the emergence of a “modern” conception of “the Classics”; students of vernacular literatures will be able to study the Latin counterparts (and often foundations) of vernacular humanist culture; and early modernists from disciplines as History or Art History will have the opportunity to explore the intellectual undercurrents of early-modern institutions and/or artistic creation.Prerequisites: Latin 100 or proven competence at this level.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Joanna Picciotto This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.We will track the controversies that dominated public life in the generation before the outbreak of war (with particular emphasis on the Martin Marprelate phenomenon and the furor excited by the “Book of Sports”), explore the textual remains of social movements made possible by the abolition of monarchy (with emphasis on the Diggers and the Levellers), and closely read the first books of poetry written in the aftermath of the invention of the newspaper. We will also read a fair amount of secondary literature. Each student will give a brief in-class presentation and produce a research paper.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Nicholas Paige and Peter Sahlins This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS.
It may also count as an elective.This course will introduce students to a range of work on early modern court societies via a consideration of the paradigmatic example of such a society, Louis XIV’s “absolutist” court. Moving out from the foundational studies of Foucault, Elias, and Marin, we will explore a number of more recent efforts – coming from the disciplines of both literary studies and history – to parse the historical and historiographical category of “absolutism” and some of the received ideas associated with it (the “Classical Age,” “subjectivity,” indeed “modernity” itself).  Over the course of the semester we will examine a series of “sites” where the culture of absolutism took shape, from the gardens of Versailles and its festivals, to the salons of Paris, and finally to the court of Louis XIV. Central to our concerns will be the specific place and work of literature in the making of absolutist culture; as such, we will be reading a careful selection of canonical literary texts from the period (e.g., La Fontaine, Molière, Racine, Lafayette), alongside a range of other texts and archival documents. Coursework will be structured so as to allow students of other periods and national traditions to develop projects on their own specific interests.CCN 32533 for French 230B, CCN 39750 for History 280BSection times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Jeffrey Knapp This course may fulfill the elective requirement for the DE in REMS, according to the topic of the research paper you write.Thurs 3:30-6:30, 108 Wheeler, 4 units, CCN 28549For most writers on the subject, mass entertainment is a distinctively modern phenomenon, made possible by unprecedented technological advances in production and distribution.  Our course will challenge the historical as well as theoretical constraints on mass entertainment that this technocentric conception imposes.  We’ll study the theory and practice of mass entertainment during two moments of major innovation in mass entertainment: when permanent theaters were first built in sixteenth-century London, and when talking pictures were first marketed in twentieth-century Hollywood.  Comparing plays and movies to the Renaissance and modern commentary on them, we’ll treat these works not simply as examples of mass entertainment but also as analyses of it.Required Books:English Renaissance Drama, ed. Bevington et al.Norton (ISBN 0393976556)Four Great Tragedies, William ShakespeareMass Market (ISBN 0451527291)Henry IV Part 1, William ShakespeareMass Market (ISBN 0451527119)Other texts for discussion will be posted on bSpace whenever possible; for texts that cannot be posted, there will be a Course Reader. Required Movies:Most of the movies for the course are available for rent or purchase from iTunes or Amazon Instant Video.  You may view all of them for free at the Media Resources Center in 245 Moffitt Library. Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Michael Wintroub This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Wed 2-5, 7415 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 78061In this class we will take the measure of measure, from vision, to motion, to affect and emotion, on to time and the heavens and into the hidden recesses of the body. Sight was disciplined by perspective; motion was plotted and gauged; representation was organized and made to scale; language was given order; and man as a moral/political being was directed to live a measured—prudent—life. Number, measure, scale, time, perspective and proportion, how and why were they delineated, and by whom? How were they then extended as standards and norms, and what battles were fought before they were accepted as accurate, authoritative and true? We will read about the standardization of lines on the page as made possible by woodblock and engraving technologies; we will examine instruments of measure, whether made for surveying, navigating or plotting the night’s sky; we will investigate attempts to map language in grammars and rhetorics; we will study the material means by which one could weigh not only goods, but the trustworthiness of adversaries and “others”; we will follow the impulse to map as cartographers tried to make sense of the New Worlds being opened up by oceanic navigation and then follow cartographic expeditions through the human body; we will then think about how bodies themselves structured the measure of measure (feet, pounds, and inches), and in turn how they became objects of measure, to be disciplined by the dissection of the day into so many reliable “clockwork” parts. Chronologically we will spend the majority of our time in the early modern period; but we will also make smash and grab raids into the modern to steal methods and tools that might aid us on our journey. Some of the authors we will read may include, Erwin Panofsky, Alfred Crosby, Ken Alder, Samuel Edgerton, Pamela Smith, Michael Baxandall, Adam Max Cohen, Bruno Latour, William Pietz, David Turnbull, Simon Schaffer, Jack Goodie, Norbert Elias; Peter Galison, William Ivins; Michel Foucault, Wolfgang Schivelbusch, Donald MacKenzie, and Gilles Deleuze.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Peter Sahlins This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This graduate seminar considers several topics in the study of European popular culture(s) during the long early modern period (14th-19th centuries), relying on the methodologies of microhistory.  In an age that increasingly values “Big History” and “The Long Duration,” this course focuses on a methodological approach widely practiced since the 1970s that seeks to make sense of discrete and unusual moments (often scandals or judicial trials) in the lives and activities of a single person or small group of people who have been marginalized in more traditional accounts of early modern European history.  Focusing on the lives, beliefs, and behaviors of (mostly) marginal people in peripheral places, microhistorians seek to uncover the everyday worlds of ordinary people in a society transformed by religious reformation, the rise of literacy, the growth of state power, and economic transformation.   After some preliminary reflections on microhistory and popular culture, we focus on four themes: gender, sexuality, and identity; religious heterodoxy; politics and rebellion; and translocal microhistory (involving movement across space and cultural boundaries).  Readings include classical works by Carlo Ginzburg, Natalie Zemon Davis, Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie, Michel de Certeau, and others, alongside methodological reflections on the question of scale in historical analysis.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Nicholas Paige This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Thurs 2-5, 4226 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 32500Crafted to appeal to a mixed urban audience as well as to King and court, running the generic gamut from farce and Latin comedy to a new kind of satire that provoked, in the words of a contemporary, a silent “rire dans l’âme,” Molière’s theatrical output is astonishingly varied.  In addition, his plays (of which we’ll be reading a selection) offer a profound engagement with the politico-cultural mutations of the 1660s, a decade that in hindsight has appeared to many as the founding moment of modernity in France. Our seminar will take the measure of the main lit-critical approaches as well as canvass more recent attempts to understand his work in the context of the institutions that shaped it.  Readings in French and English; discussions mostly in French but English speakers welcomed.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Todd Olson This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS. It may also count as an elective.This seminar will explore the early modern origins of three closely interrelated stylistic categories, the Gothic, grotesque, and arabesque, and the ways in which they engage with the perceived alterity of ornament.  Both the Gothic and grotesque were defined in terms of bodily deformity, femininity, perverse hybridity, and lack of regulation and control, and used to characterize the foreignness of the arabesque, and vice versa.  This course will interrogate the anxieties (and perhaps latent desires) underlying the formation and perception of these categories, including xenophobia, misogyny, and fear of the irrational and exotic.  We will closely examine illustrated books, prints, and buildings of the early modern world (e.g. France, Italy, colonial Latin America, South Asia).  The seminar will draw from other fields (such as anthropology and ethnomathematics) to consider the persistence of these categories in the uncontrollable reproduction and dissemination of ornament.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Emilie L. Bergmann This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Góngora’s Soledades and Sor Juana’s Primero sueño exemplify the ruptures and continuities in concepts of language and mind. Our readings will frame these poems, as well as sonnets and romances, in terms of philosophical perspectives, visual culture, and sonorous structures in the Baroque, and Neo-Baroque readings of Caribbean writers.Requirements: Weekly presentations on readings (poetry and critical approaches); mid-semester outline and final project. In the second half of the seminar, one seminar session will be focused on each student’s research topic with that student leading the class. One  (10-12 pp. research paper).Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Timothy Hampton This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This seminar will offer an extended engagement with the work of the greatest writer of prose narrative in the European Renaissance, François Rabelais. Through a reading of the work of Rabelais and several of his humanist contemporaries (Erasmus, Marot, Dolet, Marguerite de Navarre) we will pay special attention to the changing strategies of reading and interpretation that shape the genesis of modern “literature” in the sixteenth century. We will read primary texts in dialogue with a number of essays about both the history of reading practices and hermeneutics. Of central interest will be how certain features of the discourse we call “literature,” as well as certain humanistic discipines familiar to us today, are sketched out as responses to early modern political and theological disputes. Among the quetions to be asked: Can one read with the body? Is muteness discursive? Can invisible writing be literary?Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Sophie Volpp This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Course description to be announced.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor David Marno  This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.What does it mean to speak to God through a sonnet? Why would someone retell the story of the Biblical Fall in verse? Why rewrite the Psalms in rhyme royal? In this course, we’ll read sixteenth- and seventeenth-century religious poetry along with their source texts and contexts in order to answer such questions. We’ll keep a dual focus throughout: what makes religious poetry a fascinating object for study is precisely that it is both poetry and religion, that it reflects the irreverent creativity of poetry as well as the fidelity that early modern Christianity demands from its practitioners. In the strange cooperation of poetry and religion, both are often forced to show their unknown faces and hidden tendencies; our main goal in the course is to notice the moments when religious poetry tells us something new about poetic invention or religious belief. Authors include Petrarch, Thomas Wyatt, Anne Lock, Edmund Spenser, Philip and Mary Sidney, John Donne, George Herbert, Richard Crashaw, Henry Vaughan, Andrew Marvell, Thomas Traherne, and John Milton.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Emilie  Bergmann This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.An exploration of the changing conceptualization of intertextual relationships, from Garcilaso’s Petrarchist poetics to dramatist Octavio Solís and novelist Giannina Braschi’s postmodern versions of Calderón’s La vida es sueño. Among the stops between: ekphrasis (verbal imitation of a work of visual art); the voices of pícaros from Lazarillo to Cabeza de Vaca and Cervantes; operas, novels, and music inspired by Sor Juana’s poetry; Carpentier and the architecture of the neo-Baroque. Critical readings will include recent work by Luis Avilés, Noelia Cirigliano, and Mar Martínez-Góngora on early modern space.Most readings will be excerpts on bSpace.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor James Grantham Turner This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.An exploration of the satire, devotional autobiography, prose fiction, letter-writing, diaries, heroic verse, drama, pornography and feminist polemic produced in England between the Restoration of Charles II (1660) and circa 1735; these will include Behn’s Oroonoko, the world best-seller Robinson Crusoe, the earlier works of Pope (Rape of the Lock), selected letters of Mary Wortley Montagu describing her life in Turkey, and major writings by Swift (Tale of a Tub, Modest Proposal, Gulliver’s Travels). Canonical figures like Milton, Congreve, Pope and Swift will be juxtaposed to scandalous and/or marginal authors: Bunyan, Behn, Rochester, Mary Astell and Eliza Haywood. My selections emphasize the aftermath of Civil War and Puritanism in defeat, the representation of transgressive sexuality, the search for the heroic, the encounter with the alien, the resistance to “modernity,” and the change in the idea of the author as women enter the literary marketplace; many of our texts combine all of these themes. My suggestions for further reading may help you find alternative themes and ways of focusing on this mercurial period.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Paige This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Romance vs. novel.  It’s one of the most basic distinctions in literary history, and it goes back a good 350 years:  the old, obsolete form is replaced by the modern.  But is the narrative sound?  We’ll be reading a selection of classic and recent criticism on the topic and five celebrated works that may or may not document the transition from romance to novel: d’Urfé’s L’Astrée, Sorel’s Francion, Scarron’s Le Roman comique, and two works by Lafayette, Zayde and La Princesse de Clèves. All primary and most secondary works will be available in English for those who need the option.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Albert R. Ascoli This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Francis Petrarch has, more than any other single figure, served the emblematic purposes of those attempting to define the Renaissance. If it is no longer possible to think of him (or anyone) as the “first modern man person,” we cannot deny his initiating role in both Renaissance lyric poetry in the vernacular and the Latin Humanist reclamation project, not to mention his early, influential contributions to characteristic early modern forms of representation (the sonnet sequence, the Triumph, the pastoral, the diatribe, both biography and autobiography, and, perhaps most notably of all, the epistolary collection). This course will take as its loose focal point Petrarch’s lesser-known late gathering of letters, the Seniles, or Letters of Old Age, as we explore Renaissance conceptions of the human life span as these interact with the construction of cultural histories. As is well known, the medieval-early modern concept of the shape of a human life differs considerably from our own. From Dante’s “New Life” to Shakespeare’s “Seven Ages of Man.” From this perspective, Petrarch offers an exemplary “case” as he filters available classical (Cicero, De Senectute) and Christian (the Pauline “homo vetus”) discourses on old age, while grappling with the existential crisis represented by his own deterioriating body, the failures of contemporary medicine, and the struggle to find a life after death in the fame he hopes his works will bring him (as in the famous closing entry in the collection, his Letter to Posterity. In closing we will look at works from the later Renaissance that ring changes on the theme of old age, including Montaigne’s Essais and Shakespeare’s King Lear.Students are expected to attend and participate regularly. There will be occasional in-class presentations and some shorter writing assignments. The principal assignment for the course is a research paper of ca. 6000 words (ca. 25 pages). Topics must be closely related to the concerns of the course although they may focus on authors and texts not directly treated in seminar (whether from Italy or another national/linguistic tradition). Students enrolled for two credits will not write a final essay, but will complete all other course assignments, plus two shorter papers (ca. 5 pages) over the course of the semester.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Oliver Arnold This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Mon 3-6, 301 Wheeler, 4 units, CCN 28447Instead of pursuing a master problematic, we will take up a wide range of issues: when I read Shakespeare these days, I am interested in his representations of citizenship, compassion, artificial persons (political representatives, diplomats, surrogates, actors), poverty, the Roman Republic, false consciousness, and slavery; and I expect that other participants will bring many more concerns to the table. This capacious approach will allow us to take full advantage of Shakespeare’s unique importance to the evolution of literary criticism and to the philosophy of art. If Shakespeare studies have in recent decades been most closely associated with the new historicism, the plays and sonnets have been a touchstone for almost every kind of literary criticism (Marxist, psychoanalytic, deconstructionist, postcolonial, feminist, and on and on). We will read seminal articles by Cixous, Derrida, Lacan, Greenblatt, C.L.R. James, Pat Parker, and others. We will also spend some time with the many major philosophers, theorists, and artists–among others, Hegel, Schlegel, Stendhal, Hugo, Marx, and Freud–who make Shakespeare the cornerstone of a post-classical, modern theory of art and society.We will read, among other works, Titus Andronicus, The Merchant of Venice, As You Like It, Julius Caesar, Hamlet, Macbeth, King Lear, Cymbeline, and The Tempest.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor David Landreth This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.An introduction to the study of Shakespeare at the graduate level. We’ll examine a range of contemporary approaches to Shakespeare’s plays and poems, and consider how they emerge from longstanding preoccupations across four hundred years of critical reception. I’ve ordered the Norton Shakespeare at the bookstore, but you may use any recent edition of the texts. Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Diego Pirillo This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.‘Inglese italianato è un diavolo incarnato’ (an Italianate Englishman is a devil incarnate) , Roger Ascham famously said in the Schoolmaster, reproaching the wide diffusion of Italian language and culture in Elizabethan England. Despite Ascham’s attack on the ‘Italianate Englishmen’, the influence of Renaissance Italy remained wide and persistent in early modern England, as is clear to any reader of the Merchant of Venice or Romeo and Juliet. What Italian authors were read the most in the Tudor and the Stuart period and by whom? Who published them and in what material form? How did the book trade work? Did the movement go only in one direction or was Italy also reciprocally influenced by English culture? These are some of the questions that this seminar intends to address. The readings will include Shakespeare, Marlowe, Bacon, James I, Milton as well as Machiavelli, Bruno, Florio and Sarpi. Moreover, the seminar will devote ample space to methodology, in order to discuss and contrast the different approaches for studying the transmission of culture across linguistic and religious borders (translation studies, new historicism, book history, history of reading, bibliography and the sociology of texts, intertextuality and others). Several classes will take place at the Bancroft Library to examine early printed books as material objects and to understand how form affects meaning. Alternating lectures and discussions, the seminar will also host some talks by distinguished visiting scholars.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Diego Pirillo This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS. It may also count as an elective.‘Inglese italianato è un diavolo incarnato’ (an Italianate Englishman is a devil incarnate), Roger Ascham famously said in the Schoolmaster (1570), blaming the ‘Italianate Englishmen’ for spending their time reading Petrarch and Machiavelli rather than the Bible. Despite Ascham’s attack on the ‘Italianate Englishmen’, the influence of Renaissance Italy in early modern England remained wide and persistent, as is clear to any reader of the Merchant of Venice or Romeo and Juliet. This seminar will not simply look at Shakespeare’s Italian sources but will investigate more broadly the Tudor and Stuart encounter with Renaissance Italy, examining its cultural, religious and political implications. Special attention will be given not only to canonical authors (Shake-speare, Sidney, Bacon, Machiavelli, Castiglione, Ariosto, Bruno, Montaigne and others) but also to the system through which books were disseminated and received, bringing to light the crucial role played by publishers, translators, readers, censors and other cultural go-betweens. The entire seminar will be hosted by the Bancroft Library and will give students the opportunity to access its collections and to learn new methodologies for the study of books as material objects.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Jeffrey Knapp This survey course will focus on the poetry, drama, and prose literature of sixteenth-century England.  We’ll also read key works from the past fifty years of literary scholarship on the period.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Ethan Shagan This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This course is an introduction for graduate students to society and politics in England, focused on the seventeenth century but more broadly covering the years 1500-1800. We will read recent secondary scholarship, almost entirely published since the year 2000 and much of it published in the last few years, in order to introduce students to current trends and debates in the field. My interest is particularly to problematize the traditional distinction between social history and political history, emphasizing that these fields have converged around issues of power, hierarchy, and the public maintenance of order.For students taking this course as a 280—which I assume will be all or almost all of you—grades will be based upon (1) vigorous class participation and (2) a historiographical essay of roughly 20 pages, essentially a critical review of the current secondary literature on some topic of your choice, due on Thursday, December 14. If any students are taking this course as a 285, we will negotiate a limited reading load so that you can produce an article-length essay based on primary source research.All texts for the course will be available on reserve in Graduate Services, on the 2nd floor of Doe Library, with two exceptions: 1. Books that are not yet available in our library system; I will try to scan these for the class if they remain unavailable; and 2. Books and articles that are available electronically through our library. I do not expect you to buy any books for this class, although of course you are welcome to do so.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Daniel Lee This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This course investigates the ‘Civil Law’ or the jus civile, the legal order first established by classical Roman jurists and codified in uniform textual form by the Emperor Justinian known collectively as the ‘Body of Civil Law’ [Corpus Juris Civilis].  Hailed variously as ‘the written embodiment of reason’ and ‘the true philosophy,’ Civil Law was foundational to Western jurisprudence and political thought, and its influence was particularly important among early modern theorists of rights and the sovereign state.The course has three main aims.  The first part of the course will investigate the major substantive areas of Classical Roman law, such as family law, the law of property, the law of obligations, and public law.  The second part of the course will treat the Reception of Roman law in medieval and early modern Europe and focus especially on the role of Roman law in the formation of the European jus commune and the rise of a judicial and administrative legal culture central to the modern nation-state.  The third part of the course studies the ideological orientation of the Civil Law tradition in political thought and examines the use of Roman law as a major source of political theory in major texts of political thought such as Bodin’s Six Books on the State, Hobbes’ Leviathan, and Kant’s Doctrine of Right.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Déborah Blocker This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.In 1598, the Edict of Nantes puts an end to France’s wars of religion. In its wake, Catholicism is revivified, via the founding of a number of Counter-Reformation orders and movements, all competing to rekindle the Catholic faith. These attempts to re-evangelize France hinged on preaching, but were also increasingly dependent on printed works. They were aimed at a lay and even mundane readership, which was increasingly avid of literary works, such as plays, short stories and novels. This seminar examines how Counter-Reformation evangelism shaped France’s emerging literary market, studying how spirituality and literature were thereby configured as separate yet tightly connected practices. Many Counter-Reformation writers pointed to literature as mendacious and corruptive. Yet they exploited its rhetorical and poetical powers for their apologetic purposes, thus pioneering new forms of literature, both fictional and non-fictional. In a monarchy ruled by divine right, this interplay of literature and spirituality also worked to redefine the political contract, by creating a space to question and even redefine power itself.  We read writers from a wide variety of religious and spiritual affiliations, including many of the most famous works of early modern French literature (please see above). We also draw on a provocative body of interdisciplinary secondary works (Henri Brémond, Michel de Certeau, Louis Marin, Jacques Le Brun, etc). The class is taught in English and welcomes students from REMS and the Center on the History of Religion, as well early modernists from all others departments in the humanities. Final papers can be turned in French or English. Texts will be discussed in class in their French originals, but most primary readings and many secondary readings can be done in English. If you would like to take this class but would need most readings to be in English please contact me by email at dblocker@berkeley.edu by January 3, 2017, so the necessary arrangements can be made.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professors Todd Olson and  Kathryn Blair-Moore This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS.  It may also count as an elective.This course proposes to explore the Renaissance origins of three closely interrelated stylistic categories, the Gothic, grotesque, and arabesque, and the ways in which they engage with the perceived alterity of ornament.  Both the Gothic and grotesque were defined in terms of bodily deformity, femininity, perverse hybridity, and lack of regulation and control, and used to characterize the foreignness of the arabesque, and vice versa.  This course will interrogate the anxieties (and perhaps latent desires) underlying the formation and perception of these categories, including xenophobia, misogyny, and fear of the irrational and exotic.  Although we will closely examine early modern Italian and French illustrated books, prints, and buildings, the seminar will draw from other fields to consider the role of images in the uncontrollable reproduction and dissemination of ornament.  From this perspective, the course will also revisit some of the seminal texts on the theorization of ornament, including Henri Focillon’s Vie des Formes and Alois Riegl’s Stilfragen, as well as more recent art historical scholarship, including Alina Payne’s From Ornament to Object, Ethan Matt Kavaler’s Renaissance Gothic, and Gulru Necipoglu’s Topkapi Scroll.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Timothy Hampton This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS. It may also count as an elective.Baroque culture is the first instance in the West of a “global” cultural movement. It also offers the first example of an artistic moment that is truly interdisciplinary. In this seminar we will study the emergence and development of Baroque literature and thought, beginning at the end of the sixteenth century, from Rome to Mexico. Our approach will have two aspects. On the one hand, we will want to identify and study certain key features of Baroque culture, across languages, continents, and media, working out, as it were, a kind of topography of culture and politics. We will focus on such themes as the theatricalization of power, the role of allegory, the question of a Baroque “style,” imperial and urban experience, and the intersection of arts and disciplines. At the same time, however, we will be interested in the curious history of the “Baroque” in modern critical thought, from the appearance of the term in Art Historical writing at the end of the 19th century (Wöfflin, Burkhardt), through the various nationalist Baroques of the mid-twentieth, the neo-Baroque of certain post-War novelists (Carpentier, Simon), to the critical redemption of Baroque culture for our own moment by the work of Walter Benjamin and Gilles Deleuze.Among the authors to be studied will be such figures as Shakespeare, Montaigne, Corneille, Galileo, Cervantes, Donne, Caravaggio, Calderón, Tasso, Sor Juana, Pascal, Rubens, Hobbes, Góngora, Bernini, and Gracián.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Déborah Blocker Topics in the History of the Book and Manuscript Studies:
The Circulation Of the Written Word In Early Modern France and Italy (1450-1800)This course fulfills the Critical Approaches and Methodology requirement for the DE in REMS.Fri 2-5, 279 Dwinelle, 4 units, CCN 32505This seminar introduces students to the fundamentals of book history (the invention of the printing press, development and policing of the book market, and the material forms of the book), but also to what in the field is now called scribal culture, that is the continued circulation of manuscripts during the age of the printing press and, more generally, the lasting and constant competition between books and manuscripts in the high culture of early modern Europe.The main aim of this seminar is to provide students with a wide panorama of how the written world circulated in early modern Europe (dealing also, though marginally, with posters and letters). Its central practical purpose it to make students more capable of finding, analyzing, and adequately using print and manuscript sources they will need to study in the context of their dissertations, so as to make them fully proficient at extracting from these materials the information they need.We will be doing some early modern paleography and a minimal amount of codicology. We will also be thinking about how European libraries and archives developed and are currently organized when it comes to early modern materials (as this is often a consequence of the early modern circulation and conservation of these very materials and constitutes important practical knowledge to have when working in those archives). One session of the seminar will be devoted to an in-depth discussion of Dr. Filippo de Vivo’s (History, Birkbeck College) current research project on the comparative history of archives  in late medieval and early modern Italy (this research project is funded by a four-year European Research Council Starting Grant).The course will also address the growing availability of early modern print and manuscript sources over the internet, discussing in practical terms how they can best be found, searched and utilized, but also raising epistemological questions regarding the drawbacks of immaterial formats when one is studying the material production and circulation of texts.This course will be useful both to students of literature (in French as well as in Italian, but also in English, Spanish and Portuguese or German, as many of the fundamentals of this history are similar in the rest of Europe) and to historians in general. Historians of art and music will also find the course of interest, given how important rare books and manuscripts sources now are for these fields as well. Historians of philosophy with a curiosity for the materiality of ideas will also benefit from it.We will work both from primary sources (rare books and early modern manuscripts, whether at the Bancroft Library or in digital formats) and from the vast body of secondary literature that has now developed in the field of book and manuscript studies.The course is taught entirely in English, but a reasonable reading knowledge of French and/or Italian will be needed for some of the secondary readings, as well as for the paleography exercises.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Diego Pirillo This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Since its first appearance in 1962, Jürgen Habermas’s The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere has had a wide influence on several fields and disciplines from the humanities to the social sciences. Translated into English in 1992, it has been further discussed and reappraised, opening new directions of research also with regard to the early modern period. Examining Habermas’s book and the criticism that it provoked in the last few decades (including that by Judith Butler, Charles Taylor, Cornel West), the seminar will focus on early modern Europe (with special emphasis on Italy and England), where the ‘printing revolution’ allowed information to be transformed into a commodity and provided for the emergence of a transnational ‘public sphere’, through which political affairs began to be discussed outside of the traditional centers of power. Particular attention will be given to the tension between ‘secrecy’ and ‘publicity’, between the ideology of arcana imperii and the contemporary rise of an European market for information, in which classified documents were leaked, sold and disseminated in spite of the restrictions imposed by secular and religious powers. While churches and states developed sophisticated system of censorship, they soon realized that a complete control on communication was impossible and that, at times, spreading information was a more effective weapon than suppressing it. While tracing the history of the concept of ‘public opinion’ by discussing a wide range of early modern authors (Machiavelli, Guicciardini, Sarpi, Ben Jonson, James VI/I, Hobbes and others), the seminar will also take advantage of the resources of the Bancroft Library, intertwining book history with the history of information and politics, in order to examine a selection of early modern pamphlets, newspapers and ambassadorial records and to consider the different material means of communication (print as well as manuscript) through which classified knowledge was leaked in the Ancien Régime.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Jonathan Sheehan This course fulfills the Intellectual History or elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This course provides an intensive introduction to early modern European intellectual culture. It focuses both on the questions that animated intellectual inquiry and the frameworks inside of which this inquiry was pursued. Major topics will include: humanism and the humanities, politics and political thought, practices of theological inquiry, philology and the historical sciences, genre and the history of the book, the topography of intellectual life (universities, networks, academies), and the sciences of culture in an age of discovery. Many weeks will engage a substantial primary text. Authors may include: Valla, Machiavelli, Erasmus, Acosta, Luther, Calvin, Teresa of Avila, Bodin, Lipsius, Grotius, Bacon, Hobbes, and others.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Déborah Blocker This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.This course investigates the literary, artistic and intellectual importance of the major learned academies of early modern France, Italy and Spain (1500-1800), with an eye to their social and political impact.Early modern academies were social institutions assembling a group of individuals united by a quest for knowledge, outside of a university setting. Some of these sodalities were large, public and mostly subservient to power. Others were small, private and secretly subversive. Thousands of academies developed throughout Western Europe during the early modern period and these institutions played a major role in the advent of modernity, in a variety of different ways.It is for example within the academies of early modern France, Italy and Spain that many of the disciplines taught today on university campuses first came together as scholarly discourses (such as philology, linguistics, literary criticism, musicology, history, but also mathematics or physics). Meanwhile, the Universities remained conservative professional schools, restricted to the teaching of law, medicine and theology. It is also amid the academies and their extensive intellectual networks that many of today’s academic values were originally crafted (such as the call for a leisurely and disinterested quest for knowledge for its own sake, or the imperative to think rationally and critically, or the insistence on the importance of integrity, honesty and autonomy in intellectual activities). Last but not least, early modern academies were important social and political experiments in their own right. Because they frequently affirmed themselves to be central elements of the ‘Republic of Letters,’ these institutions have even been described as one of the institutional foundations of the liberal democratic ideal.In this seminar, we examine the development of the academic movement in France, Italy and Spain over three centuries, while also questioning the ways in which historians have accounted for this complex phenomenon. Alongside these historiographical accounts, we read primary sources (academic statutes, academic orations and polemics, literary and scientific works, letters, etc.), paying special attention to the wide variety of academic institutions and practices. We also investigate the development of new discourses within the academies (from poetics to history and even physics), through a handful of case studies and comparisons. Finally, we question the socio-political foundations, as well as possible repercussions, of the early modern academic movement.This course was designed to give students in the Romance Languages and Literatures (RLL) track a comparative sense of the social and intellectual history of France, Italy and Spain during the early modern period. It is however fully suitable for REMS students, especially those interested in early modern history, literature(s) and philosophy. Historians of early modern art, music or science will also find it beneficial.Knowledge of at least one Romance language (French, Italian or Spanish) is preferable but not compulsory. English will be the main language of the secondary readings, but students in the RLL track will be expected to work through a variety of primary sources in French, Italian and/or Spanish. Specific reading arrangements can however be made for students not enrolled in the RLL track (REMS students, or other scholars of early modern culture). Please feel free contact the professor prior to the beginning of the semester at with any special requests or questions (dblocker@berkeley.edu).Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professors Carla Hesse and Jonathan Sheehan This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.Arguably, in the past 25 years, the Enlightenment has effectively collapsed as a set of philosophical, political, and social prescriptions. It has, at the same time, become far more various, plural, and local in its historical character. This course proposes to take up the problem of Enlightenment as a topic of historical research in this post-national moment, and aims both to survey recent historiography and to identify directions for promising future work. The course is planned as a set of conversations, both methodological and topical. It will be organized around five significant themes: 1) cosmopolitanism and transnationalism; 2) ideas and goods; 3) theories and pratices of political community; 4) orthodoxy and heterodoxy; and 5) bodies, phenomenal and ideal. In all cases, we will focus both on the intellectual and philosophical tradition that has long characterized the Enlightenment and the socio-cultural institutions and practices that have traditionally put this period at the threshold of our modernity. The course will be chronologically broad, ranging from the late seventeenth century to the revolutionary era. It will also be geographically inclusive: while centered in continental Europe, students can expect to range from the British Atlantic to points in the far east, the southern hemisphere and beyond.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professors Victoria Kahn and Ethan Shagan This course fulfills the Intellectual History requirement for the DE in REMS.
It may also count as an elective.This course offers an introduction to Renaissance and early modern studies, focusing on debates about secularism as they pertain to four topics: the state, the human, literature, and society. We will read works by Dante, Luther, and Savonarola, Las Casas, Petrarch, Machiavelli, Milton, Lucy Hutchinson, Ann Halkett, and Giambattista Vico. The course will be co-taught by a historian and literary scholar and the methodological differences between these approaches will be one of the main topics of the seminar. The course satisfies the Intellectual History requirement of the Designated Emphasis in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies.CCN 17383 for Comp Lit 215
CCN 39876 for History 280C, section 2Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Ivonne Del Valle This course fulfills the elective requirement for the DE in REMS.In this course we will read Spanish texts (written by Spaniards or under the direction of Spaniards) dealing with problems arising in the colonies in the 16th century around several related issues: what constituted just war and a just enemy, when was violence excessive, how to turn enormous populations speaking multiple languages into good Christian subjects and (especially)into good laborers, how to write about a nature that seemed to contradict current scientific ideas? Though all of these issues necessitated rapid and ad hoc responses, they also elicited theoretical contributions that were influential in their time (Francis Bacon reading José de Acosta, and Hugo Grotius reading Francisco de Vitoria, for example) and that even when unacknowledged, at least directly, continue to inform the production of theories explaining power, technology, and religion (Foucault, Bataille, for example). This course aims at bridging the colonies and future theoretical understanding in these areas.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Sugata Ray This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.The recent past has seen a renewed scholarly focus on the mobility and global circulation of people, objects, and ideas across the early modern world. Historians have now come to understand the early modern as fundamentally transcultural, a form of “globalization” before modernity. But what role did early modern trade networks and diplomacy, commodities and consumption, warfare and intrigue play in the production of objects? How did technology transfer reshape aesthetic taste? Conversely, in what ways did material objects participate in the development of the global early modern as a political, social, and intellectual condition? With these questions in mind, we will closely focus on one object each week to generate a theory of things circulating across the early modern world. Our interrogations will focus on the Mughal empire (1526–1858), the largest centralized Islamic state in this period, at the crossroads of European colonialism, inter-Asian trade networks, and exchanges across the Islamic world. Consequently, our visual archive will range from South Asian material in European kunstkammers to Chinese porcelain collections, the hybridization of animals and plants from Latin America, Islamic cartography, maritime engineering, automatons, and Jesuit print culture in the Mughal court. Our readings and discussions will also radiate outwards from Mughal South Asia to Europe, China, Southeast Asia, Africa, and the Indian Ocean littoral. At the same time, we will visit the Asian Art Museum to study paintings in order to engage with the materiality of early modern things. Bringing together postcolonial theory and global art history, our aim will be to intercept and transcript the plurotopic transculturality internal to the early modern world. No previous background in art history, postcolonial theory, early modern studies, or South Asia is required.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Timothy Hampton This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.In this seminar we will study the intersection between major works of French Renaissance literature and the rich body of “travel literature” that begins to be produced during the period–both in response to the “voyages of discovery” to the Americas and Asia, and in response to increasing engagement between France and the Ottoman Empire. Beginning with a look at such canonical genres as the “natural history” and the pilgrimage narrative, we will study the ways in which conventions, clichés and material from travel begin to find their way into that discourse that would come to be called “literature”–poems, plays, essays, fiction.  Among the topics to be studied: the “uses” of travel in non-travel writing; the depiction of the traveler’s body; the role of the “island”; the relationship between travel and translation; travel and diplomacy; travel and monstrosity. Works by figures such as Rabelais, Montaigne, and Ronsard will be read in dialogue with writing by various travelers and scribes such as Léry, Thevet, Cartier, Leo Africanus, and Pigafetta, as well as contemporary critics interested in the rhetoric of travel.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesInstructor: Professor Henrike Christiane Lange This course fulfills an elective requirement for the DE in REMS.The seminar Trionfi/Triumphs will examine a variety of triumphal gestures in history: Rites, processions, monuments, and iconographies from ancient Roman triumphs to the present day. Stations of this cultural history investigation include: Ancient arches and their decoration, booty and spolia, Christian medieval adaptations in rites and reliquaries, Renaissance triumphs in painting, print, and literature (Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio), iconic imagery of triumphs (Mantegna, Dürer, Rubens), the Latino tradition of religious processions, operatic adaptations, Fascist triumphal imagery under the direction of Mussolini and Leni Riefenstahl, and other modern examples oftriumphs and reversals in contemporary Italian cinema such as in Roberto Benigni’s La vita è bella.Depending on the students’ backgrounds, interests, and level of Italian language skills, the course will usually combine some introductory remarks with the discussion of readings and artworks. Students will contribute small presentations on a text and an artwork throughout the term, and present their seminar paper topic to the group towards the end of class.Prerequisites: Graduate standing or consent of instructor.You should have read Petrarch’s Triumphs (in English or Italian) at least once in your life before the beginning of our seminar meetings.The course will be taught in English with readings in English and Italian. Readings in Italian will be discussed striking for balance between the participating students’ overall knowledge of Italian and the authenticity of the original texts. This means that we will sometimes look very closely into the original Italian for textual analysis, but do so communicating in English.Taught in English. May be taken for 2 or 4 units.Section times and locations in the Schedule of ClassesThe Designated Emphasis in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies draws on Berkeley’s exceptional faculty strength in Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences. It offers comprehensive training in a wide range of departments and disciplines. Students combine seminar work in intellectual and cultural history, material culture, and languages to supplement their traditional doctoral studies. The DE fosters cutting-edge research and close collaboration with faculty.APPLICATION PROCESSStudents are invited to apply for admission to the DE as early as the end of their first semester of graduate study at Berkeley if they have taken a course from someone in REMS and have a recommendation from that person.The application consists of an application form (which can be downloaded from this site), a brief (two-page single-spaced) essay stating the student’s rationale for applying, any relevant coursework or other preparation for the DE, and the student’s projected pathway through the program; a writing sample (no more than 20 pages); and the name and email address of a UCB faculty member who knows your work well and will support your application to the DE.For academic year 2017-18, the admission deadlines are November 1 and April 2. You may download the application here.CURRICULUMThe required course of study consists of five courses: two required “core” courses offered by the DE, and three approved electives, one of which may be used to satisfy the DE’s language requirement.The first of the core courses is “Critical Approaches and Methodology.” This course engages with diverse disciplines, interpretive traditions, bibliographical resources, and scholarly practices (such as paleography, iconology, history of the book, and philology) in order to provide students with essential intellectual tools for graduate-level interdisciplinary research in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies.The second core course (although it may be taken first) is “Intellectual History.” This course focuses on major texts, artists, authors, and themes (such as humanism, the Reformation, the Baroque, Machiavellianism, courtliness, and colonialism) that provide crucial intellectual contexts for interdisciplinary research in the field.  These two core requirements might also be fulfilled by other courses offered through the D.E. depending on approval by Head Graduate Adviser.The three electives will be chosen in consultation with the Head Graduate Adviser. At least one of these electives must be taken outside the student’s home department. This breadth requirement cannot be satisfied by a course that also fulfills the language requirement.  Students should take into consideration that the D.E. strongly encourages them to take courses outside their home department.The language requirement may be satisfied by an upper-division course in a language outside the student’s department, as approved by the Head Graduate Adviser. Students must demonstrate that the chosen language will be essential to their dissertation projects. For many students, this language will be Latin, the lingua franca of the early modern and Renaissance world. However, the language might also be Italian, or Dutch, or Classical Arabic, if the student’s dissertation project requires it. The language requirement may also be satisfied by previous coursework or by a translation exam, as approved by the Head Graduate Adviser.EXAMINATIONThe QE must include examination in an interdisciplinary field of knowledge within the DE; students must receive written approval of the field from the Head Graduate Adviser before taking the QE. At least one faculty member affiliated with the DE must participate in the QE. Satisfactory performance on the QE will be judged according to the established procedures of the student’s home department.DISSERTATIONThe dissertation must include research in an interdisciplinary field of knowledge within the DE. This research may take several forms, which will vary from student to student: for instance, students might analyze texts that are outside the normal purview of their home departments, or they might apply interdisciplinary knowledge that has been obtained through study within the DE. The dissertation committee must include at least one faculty member affiliated with the DE, and the committee should be formed in consultation with the Head Graduate Adviser.DEGREEThe DE will be acknowledged solely in conjunction with the Ph.D. in an established Ph.D. program and will be signified by the transcript and diploma designation, “Ph.D. in __________________ with a Designated Emphasis in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies.”CONTACT INFORMATIONDirector of the Designated Emphasis in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies: Victoria Kahn, Comparative Literature and English (vkahn@berkeley.edu)
Head Graduate Advisor: Ivonne DelVAlle, Spanish and Portuguese (idelvalle@berkeley.edu)
Graduate Student Services Advisor: Mary Ajideh (ajideh@berkeley.edu)