1. Does the Department admit students for fall and spring semesters?
						    The Department admits new students for the fall term only.2. What is the application deadline?
						  The deadline for the applications is December 15. Late or incomplete materials submitted after the December 15 will not be considered.3. How do I obtain application forms?
						  You can apply online by filling out the secure application form at (http://www.grad.berkeley.edu/admissions/index.shtml).4. How to I apply if I was registered before at Berkeley as a graduate student?
						  If you were registered before as a graduate student at Berkeley, you will have to complete an Application for Readmission form instead. Readmission applicants may be in competition with applicants for admission. If you are applying to a different major from the one that you were last registered, you will have to complete a Graduate Petition for Change of Major or Degree Goal. These forms are available at (http://registrar.berkeley.edu/GeneralInfo/elecforms.html). For additional requirements or information please contact the department.5. I applied last year and plan to reapply this year. Do I have to submit everything again?
						  You have to resubmit the Graduate Application form and pay the application fee. If you have completed any course work since your last application, you will have to upload copies of your updated transcripts.6. Which application materials should be submitted directly to the department?
							  All application materials (including statement of purpose, college/university level transcripts, writing sample, and 3 letters of recommendation) should be uploaded to the Graduate Division's online application system.
						  TOEFL scores (if applicable) are submitted electronically after the test is taken.7. Do I need to take the GRE in order to apply to the graduate program in Near Eastern Studies? 
							  No. The Department of Near Eastern Studies doesn't take GRE scores into consideration when deciding whether to admit applicants to our program. If you are also applying to other departments on the Berkeley campus - or to other universities - please be sure to check their requirements because those programs might ask for different application materials.8. Who is required to take TOEFL test?
						  Students from countries in which the official language is not English, are required to take the TOEFL test; however, students who have completed at least one year of full-time academic course work with grades of B or better at a U.S. university do not need to take the TOEFL test.9. How long are the TOEFL test scores valid?
						  The TOEFL must have been taken within the past two years. Tests taken before the month of June of two years prior in which admission is thought will not be accepted.10. Where should the TOEFL test scores be reported?
						  For reporting the TOEFL scores, the UC Berkeley code is 4833 and the department code may be given as 2999 (Humanities) or 0000 (Other). TOEFL scores are reported electronically.11. What is the last date that I can take the TOEFL?
						  You should plan on taking the exam no later than by the end of November. Taking the exam at a later date may put your application at a disadvantage.12. What are the minimum TOEFL scores required for admission?
						  The most recent total score on the Internet-based TOEFL must be at least 90 out of 120.13. What is the minimum required GPA for admission and how does the department calculate GPA?
						  Applicants must have a minimum of 3.0 GPA for the undergraduate work completed after the first 2 years of their study, or in 2 years or more of master’s or doctoral level study. For international applicants the GPA is calculated using all years of their work for their degree.14. Can you tell me more about the writing sample?
						  The writing sample should be approximately 20 pages that you have written for a college level course or the equivalent in any subject. This may be an excerpt from something longer than 20 pages or a complete paper. It can be something that has been published, or not.15. How long should the Statement of Purpose be?
						  There is no minimum or maximum limit on the statement of purpose; the suggestion is that it should be 1 or at most 2 pages.16. If my degree objective is the Ph.D., shall I indicate PhD or M.A./Ph.D. on the application? 
						  All applicants, including those who do not or will not have an M.A. degree by the time of entry, should indicate "Ph.D." as their degree goal.17. Can I be admitted if I have deficiencies in preparation?
						  Applicants without the M.A. degree should have fulfilled the equivalent of the Departmental requirements for the B.A. degree. Minor deficiencies in preparation would need to be repaired during the student's first year of graduate work. For more extensive preparatory work, prospective applicants might consider enrolling in UC Extension’s Concurrent Enrollment Program, through which students may enroll in the regular courses for this Department. Units for courses taken through this program will not be credited toward the student's M.A. requirements. Registration and fee information is available through the University Extension, (510) 642-4111.18. Can I take NES courses without being admitted to the program?
							  With the instructor's approval, you can enroll in regular NES courses through UC Berkeley Extension’s Concurrent Enrollment program. Please note, however, that you will not be considered a UC Berkeley student, and you cannot accumulate credit toward a Berkeley degree without being formally admitted to a Berkeley program.
                                  						  
						      All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.Created by AnvSoft HTML5 Slideshow Maker Near Eastern Studies: Home Page ---------------------------------------------------------Commencement Ceremony
    May 17th, 2010
        -This Year's Speaker:- Fred M. Donner 
		    
      Professor of Near Eastern History
	      The University of Chicago    
	  CONGRATULATIONS,
    GRADUATES!
                  To see the offered course listings select the relevant semester in the Schedule of Classes where you can find the course titles, instructors, schedule          and location for the courses. 
In the Class Search please select   one of the following:  Near Eastern Studies, Arabic, Cuneiform, Egyptian, Hebrew, Iranian, Persian, Semitics, & Turkish. In the Course Number select “greater than or equal to” and enter 1, and click "search" to view the complete listing of the offered courses.
        Summer Courses
        To view the offered course listings for Summer, please 
        select   one of the following in the Berkeley Summer Sessions web site: Near Eastern Studies, Arabic, Cuneiform,          Egyptian, Hebrew, Iranian, Persian, Semitics, & Turkish. Go to the Summer Class Schedule for the most up to date information. 
      
      Course Descriptions
        For the course description for an individual course, please click on the "catalog description" link or refer to the "Notes" section. 
        Course Descriptions of the entire course offerings of the Department can be found through the links below, in the Berkeley Academic Guide.
      NES  | Arabic | Cuneiform | Egyptian | Hebrew | Persian | Semitics | Turkish                   
      
						  
						  Supervised independent study and special studies courses (including field study, museum internship, exam preparation, and dissertation writing courses) do not appear in the schedule of classes. They are listed in the Berkeley Academic Guide (also accessible form the links above). These courses require consent of instructor. Courses offered during the  regular fall and spring semesters may be open to students from other  colleges and people in the community, if space is available after UC  Berkeley registered students have enrolled. 
  To find out more, please see the Concurrent Enrollment Web Site. Students at California community colleges and Bay Area high schools  should check with their school counselor to find out about programs  that may allow them to enroll in courses at UC Berkeley. 
                                                                    
								 
						      All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.
                          Each academic year students are admitted for the Fall Semester only. The deadline           is December 15 (5:00 pm Pacific Standard Time) of the year preceding the academic year in which admission is           sought. The online application and instructions are available at:			          http://www.grad.berkeley.edu/prospective/index.shtml. How to apply:
						    1. Review the information on Graduate Admissions.
			      2. Review the Graduate Division's minimum degree requirements for academic work. 
			      3. Review the departmental requirements; please note that applicants for the M.A. program should have fulfilled the equivalent of Departmental Requirements for the B.A. Degree.
			        4. Review the information on required materials for admission (below).
			        5. Complete the Online Application. 
			        GRE: The Department of Near Eastern Studies does not require GRE scores for graduate applications. 
					      TOEFL scores (if applicable) must be submitted electronically by the deadline.                  For reporting the TOEFL scores, the UC Berkeley code is 4833 and the  department code may be given as 2999 (Humanities) or 0000 (Other).  TOEFL requirements:
	              All applicants from countries in which the official language is not English are required to take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), one of the English language proficiency tests. However, TOEFL can be waived for those students who have completed at least one year of full-time academic course work with grades of B or better at a U.S. university. 
			        Please note that TOEFL scores more than two years old at the time of application cannot be considered.
			        
		          *Following materials should be submitted  by the deadline, before December 15th:
                    (All supporting materials should be scanned in an easily readable-size PDF format and should be uploaded to the Graduate Division's online application system. 
                    (Please Do Not mail any application materials, including transcripts):
                                        Recommended format for naming your uploads: Your last name_Document NameMaterials submitted after the deadline will not be considered for  review by the Department. Applicants to the graduate program should  note that the Department will make its recommendations on admission  applications immediately following the admission application deadline.  For this reason it is important that all parts of the student's  application, including all college level transcripts, three letters of  recommendation, and a writing sample are submitted  by the deadline. Fellowship deadlines for incoming students are the same as the  admission application deadlines. Entering students may apply by filling  out the appropriate portion of the admission application. FLAS (Foreign  Language and Area Studies) fellowships and multi-year UC fellowships  are administered through the Graduate Division on the basis of a  campus-wide competition. The  department typically nominates admitted doctoral students of outstanding achievement  for competition-based university-wide fellowships. Competition for Magistretti fellowships, Block  Grant awards, and smaller stipends and nonresident tuition grants is  department-based.  Graduate applicants who are members of certain ethnic minority groups  may qualify for the University's Graduate Opportunity Program. Please  refer to the Graduate Division for details.  Applicants for any of these awards who are U.S. citizens or Residents  are asked to submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
                  Please fill out the appropriate sections for domestic or international fellowships applicants on the online Graduate Application.
                  
                  Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships (FLAS)
                    FLAS Fellowships provide opportunity to study critical and less commonly taught modern foreign languages of the following world areas: Africa, East Asia, Eastern Europe/Russia/Eurasia, Latin America, Middle East, South Asia, and Southeast Asia. Only US citizens or permanent residents are eligible to apply.                     
                    
                    Applicants to the language programs are strongly advised to submit FLAS Essay. 
                    In the essay, the applicant has to demonstrate the need to acquire a high level of competency   in a target language (other than the applicant's primary language of study)  for the applicant's field and career.                  Readmission applicants as well as those who have been away from the university for more than 5 years, and Berkeley students who intend to change their degree/major must use the same online application and submit the same documentation as those applying  for initial admission. 
                                  						  
								    All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.The requested URL /graduate-programs.html was not found on this server.Additionally, a 404 Not Found
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.DEPARTMENT OF NEAR EASTERN STUDIES
                            
250 Barrows Hall, 
University of California, 
Berkeley, California 94720
Telephone: 510-642-3757, 
Fax: 510-643-8430; 
Email: nes@berkeley.edu;
web: http://nes.berkeley.edu/
University of California, Berkeley: http://www.berkeley.edu/                          
                          GRADUATE PROGRAM
                            
                            GRADUATE ADVISERS 
                          GRADUATE ADVISERS Fall 2015-Spring 2016                            Head Graduate Adviser & Graduate Adviser in Ancient Studies
  Niek Veldhuis (280 Barrows)
  Professor of Assyriology, Ancient Mesopotamian Languages and Cultures. 
                          veldhuis@berkeley.edu Graduate Adviser in Islamic Studies/Arabic/Hebrew/Persian
                            Asad Q. Ahmed (272 Barrows)
                            Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies
                            asad.ahmed@berkeley.edu
                                                      DEPARTMENT OF NEAR EASTERN STUDIES GRADUATE STUDENT HANDBOOK
  
  TABLE OF CONTENTSI.          Summary of Program II.         General Information 
                            Advising 
                            Normative Time and Fees                                                                                     
                            Filing Fee                                                                                                                  
                            Registration/Study List                                                                                         
                            Grading and Evaluation                                                                                        
                            Appeals        
  
  III.        M. A. Degree Requirements                                                                                     IV.       Ph.D. Degree Requirements                                                                  
                            Pre-Candidacy Requirements                                                                              
                            Ph.D. Examinations                                                                                               
                            Advancement to Candidacy                                                                                 
                            Candidate in Philosophy Degree                                                                                          
                            Dissertation                                                                                                            V.                  Financial Assistance                                                                                   
                            University Fellowships, Nonresident Tuition 
                            Grants, FLAS Fellowships                                                                   
                            Graduate Opportunity Program                                                                         
                            Financial Aid Office                                                                                                
                            Graduate Student Instruction/Research                                                           VI.       Deadlines and Procedures                                                                     VII.      Access to Records                                                                                      VIII.     Email  
                            
                          IX.       Career CenterX.        Exchange Programs 
                            
                            XI.        Libraries
                                
                                XII.       Museums
                                  
                                  Appendix  I.   Fields of Examination for the M.A. Degree
                                    
                                  Appendix  II.  NES Faculty and their Research Interests I.                PROGRAMSGraduate programs leading to the Ph.D. degree are offered in Arabic, Hebrew, and Persian languages and literatures, Near Eastern Archaeology, Cuneiform, Hebrew Bible, Biblical and Judaic Studies, Egyptology, and Islamic Studies. Information on courses currently offered by the Department may be obtained from the NES web site (http://nes.berkeley.edu/courses.html) or the Department Office, 250 Barrows Hall (510), 642-6162 or 642-3757.II.               GENERAL INFORMATIONAdvisingGraduate students will be assisted by one of the Department's appointed Graduate Advisers, who will take general responsibility for counseling and planning of pro­grams.  For Fall 2015 and Spring 2016, Professor Niek Veldhuis will serve as Head Graduate Adviser. The student will also be aided by the Student Services Adviser (GSAO) Deanna Kiser-Go (dkisergo@berkeley.edu; 642-4915) in all administrative matters.  Students are urged to take courses and consult with as many as possible of the faculty of the Department with interests relevant to theirs. As soon as possible, ideally by the end of the first or second semester of graduate study, students should select a three-member faculty committee to guide their academic work. (See the sections about formation of a committee for students in the Ph.D. programs).Normative Time and FeesAll students are subject to the Normative Time Policy of the University and are required:
                            
                            (a) to register each semester in which they make use of University facilities and faculty time.(b) to satisfy all the requirements for the PhD. Degree, including filing of the dissertation, within five years of entrance with an M.A. degree or within seven years of entrance with a B.A. degree. An additional two semesters of “withdrawal,” i.e., of being non-registered (for medical or parental leave only), may be approved.To comply with normative time, students are generally considered to be making satisfactory progress if they are advanced to candidacy for the Ph.D. (i.e., having passed the PhD. qualifying examination, prepared a dissertation prospectus, and formed a dissertation committee) within four years of entry into the Department. This leaves three years, and possibly two semesters of approved withdrawal, for the writing of the dissertation. Failure to make satisfactory progress will affect eligibility for financial assistance.Students who have not completed the dissertation within the normative time requirements plus a two-year grace period are subject to being put on probationary status, the first step of which is the lapsing of the student's candidacy, followed by termination of candidacy. A student whose candidacy has lapsed may not hold any academic appointment (e.g. GSI or GSR). Steps necessary to regain candi­dacy status are increasingly rigorous as time passes. In extreme cases, a student may be required to retake qualifying examinations. For details, please refer to Graduate Division policies at: <http://grad.berkeley.edu/policy>. DCF AwardAfter advancement to candidacy, students may apply for the Doctoral Completion Fellowship (DCF), which is a one-year award that carries a yearly stipend and pays fees. The DCF provides an incentive for students to file their dissertations within a reasonable time (within a year of the program’s Normative Time to Degree). To be eligible for the DCF, the student must be advanced to candidacy; the DCF must be used by Normative Time to Degree plus one year; to activate the DCF, the student must have a satisfactory Academic Progress report on file—to be completed every year after advancement to candidacy—from most recent year after advancement <https://gradlink.berkeley.edu/GLOW/>. It is important to plan the activation of the DCF award accordingly, as after the DCF is used the students will no longer be eligible for any University support, including GSI and GSR appointments, after Normative Time to Degree plus one year.  Filing Fee The Filing Fee (http://grad.berkeley.edu/policy/registration-and-exchange-programs-policy/#d2-filing-fee) is a reduced fee for graduate students who have completed all requirements for the degree except for taking the final comprehensive examination for the master's degree, and securing the required signatures on the doctoral dissertation title page before filing the dissertation. The Filing Fee is not a form of, or equivalent to, registration. To use the Filing Fee in fall, the student must have been registered in the previous spring or summer (3 units minimum in summer). To use the Filing Fee in spring, the student must have been registered in the previous fall. The application must be signed by the head Graduate Adviser and submitted to the Graduate Division by the end of the first week ofclasses for the semester in which the student intends to file for the degree. Filing Fee status will not be reinstated or transferred because the dissertation or thesis was not filed, or the examination not taken or not passed. The Filing Fee is valid for the length of the semester for which Filing Fee status has been approved, up to the deadline for filing for a degree in that semester. The Filing Fee may be used only once. Registration/Study ListStudents must pay fees and enroll in courses before the deadlines published by the Office of the Registrar or they will be charged a substantial late fee. It is the student's responsibility to be aware of, and meet, these deadlines. Students enroll in courses for each fall semester during the preceding spring semester, and for each spring semester during the preceding fall. Each student’s course schedule must be approved by a Graduate Adviser before the Adviser will give the student the Adviser code, needed for enrollment in courses. Enrollment rules, deadlines, and information are available at:  <http://registrar.berkeley.edu/tbinfo.html>. All entering students are required to take the NES 200 Graduate Proseminar, a one credit hour course that surveys the various disciplines and subfields of Near Eastern Studies, in their first or second year. All students specializing in Egyptian and Ancient Near Eastern Studies must take NES 202, Fields, Methods and Current Trends in Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Studies, which provides an introduction to the diversity of fields and disciplines that comprise ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Studies. The Graduate Council considers 12 units of graduate coursework (units in the 200 series or, if appropriate, the 600 series) or 16 units in the 100 series a “normal” load for full-time students who are not advanced to candidacy. There are, however, cases in which higher or lower unit loads will be desirable on academic grounds or in light of individual circumstances (e.g., working students whose employment does not materially contribute to academic training and progress toward the degree). 
                            
                            Please see the Berkeley Academic Guide online and the Graduate Division’s web page for further information on normal coursework loads. All students, including fellowship holders and Graduate Student Instructors who are not advanced to candidacy for the Ph.D., are required to carry at least 12 units of coursework. This requirement does not apply to GSIs and fellowship holders who are advanced to candidacy for the Ph.D. All courses in which the student is enrolled will count in this total of 12 units, including special study courses, individual studies courses (601, 602), and courses on preparation for teaching (300-level). No more than 8 units of 600-level courses are allowed per semester. GradingGrades are awarded for courses at the discretion of the course instructor. Graduate students are required by University regulations to maintain a grade point average of at least 3.0 ("B"). Students who fail to meet this minimum standard, or who do not make normal progress in other respects toward the degree, may be subject to probation and eventual dismissal by the Dean of the Graduate Division. To be eligible to take Ph.D. qualifying examinations or to hold an academic appointment, the student may carry no more than two grades of “I” (Incomplete) on his or her record.For Ph.D. students, no more than one-third of total units (including 100-level and 200-level courses and excluding courses numbered 299 and above) may be graded as S/U (satisfactory/unsatisfactory). For M.A. students, two-thirds of total units must be letter-graded (including 100-level and 200-level courses and excluding courses numbered below 100 or 299 and above). For more information on grade requirements refer to < http://grad.berkeley.edu/policy/coursework-grading-probation-and-dismissal-policy/#e13-grades>. AppealsThe Department has an appeals process for matters of departmental decisions that would terminate or otherwise impede the progress of a student toward his or her academic degree goal (e.g., decisions to put a student on probationary status, dismiss student, terminate or lapse the candidacy of a student). Copies of this process are posted and are available from the Graduate Student Services Adviser, in room 250B Barrows.Graduate DivisionMany important regulations governing the M.A. and Ph.D. degree programs are issued by the Graduate Division. Much of this information is available on the web, and students are encouraged to refer to it: < http://grad.berkeley.edu/policy/>.III.              THE MASTER OF ARTS DEGREEIf the student's undergraduate preparation is deficient, the student may be required to undertake coursework in addition to that which is normally required for the M.A. degree. In such cases, the additional coursework may cause the student to exceed the usual two years, which the Graduate Division considers "satisfactory progress" with respect to completion of the M.A. program.The M.A. degree in Near Eastern Studies is obtained according to the Graduate Division's Plan II (with a comprehensive exam), not Plan I (with a thesis).Specific requirements for the degree are listed below. Particular attention should be paid to the section concerning M.A. degree advancement to candidacy, which describes the relative timing of the various requirements.Academic ResidenceA minimum of two semesters of academic residence is required for the M.A. degree. A student must enroll in and complete a minimum of 4 units of upper division or graduate courses on the Berkeley campus in each of the required semesters. Only courses in the 100 or 200 series satisfy this requirement.Formation of an M.A. CommitteeAs soon as the student's areas of interest become clear, but certainly not later than the beginning of the third semester after admission, the student should select a three-member faculty committee to guide his/her work toward the degree. The choice of the committee is the student's responsibility and must be approved by the faculty members involved and by the Graduate Adviser. With the help of the Graduate Adviser, therefore, students should seek, from the outset of their program, professors whose fields of specialization most nearly correspond to their own areas of interest. One, or possibly two, members of this committee may be members of a department other than Near Eastern Studies, but the chair of the committee must be a member of the faculty of this Department. The Graduate Division recommends that members of the M.A. committee be regular members of the Berkeley faculty. Visiting faculty and lecturers who hold a Ph.D. degree may participate on M.A. examination committees with the permission of the Graduate Adviser. No visiting faculty member, however, may chair an examination. Except in the most unusual circumstances, no more than one visiting faculty member may serve on an examination committee.Members of the M.A. committee will meet with the student to help determine the student's fields of study, and to suggest an appropriate program of study. The committee will also periodically review the student's progress.Third Semester ReviewEarly inthe student's third semester of study, he or she is expected to meet with their three-member M.A. committee to review the student's progress toward the degree. In evaluating the student's performance, the committee will consider the student's grades and general academic progress. The student's specific research interests and goals will be discussed at the meeting. If a serious deficiency is discovered in the student's preparation, the committee will advise the student in writing as to ways of dealing with it.Modern European languageAll M.A. candidates are required to pass an examination in one modern European language before applying for M.A. candidacy. In this Department, the language required is normally French or German. Another modern language may be substituted for one of these if it is clearly necessary to the student's field of study. Any such substitution must be approved by the Graduate Adviser and the student's advisory committee.The text of the European language examination is selected by the chair of the student's committee. At the beginning of the semester when the student intends to take the exam, the student should fill out the online examination scheduling form (provided by the Graduate Student Services Adviser) and inform his or her committee chair of the need to provide the Graduate Student Services Adviser with a selected exam passage. The student then schedules the exam with the Graduate Services Adviser. The completed exam is circulated to the student's committee, which is responsible for grading. The examination consists of one or two passages totaling at least 300 words. This passage must be translated into English in 90 minutes. Use of a dictionary is permitted. If a student does not pass the examination, the examination may be repeated, but not until the following semester.Students must pass the modern European language examination or receive approval of the Adviser and Dean for a waiver of the examination before applying for candidacy for the M.A. degree. The examination is taken on a departmental computer. The students receive their completed examination copies (source text and translation) in the electronic format.CourseworkAll students are required to complete 24 units of coursework in 100 or 200 series courses. Two-thirds of all course work must be letter-graded. Twelve units should be taken in the 200 series in the major subject. The department’s graduate proseminar, NES 200, must be taken by all students in their first or second year.
                            
                            For students in language programs: at least 24 semester units of coursework (see degree outlines), at least 12 of which must be in 200 series courses in the major, and three semesters of work in a Near Eastern language other than the student's major language. Knowledge of one modern Semitic language is recommended for students of ancient languages.For students in archaeology and art history programs with a Near Eastern emphasis: at least 24 units of course work, at least 12 of which must be in 200 series courses; three semesters must be drawn from NES 223A,B.For students in archaeology and art history programs with an Egyptian emphasis: at least 24 units of course work, at least 12 of which must be in 200 series courses. The required 24 units must include two semesters work in the ancient Egyptian language beyond second-year level. The 12 200 series units must be from seminar courses. (One 200 level Egyptian language course may count towards the seminar course requirement.)Not more than one-third of the total units (excluding those in the 300 or 600 series) that the student has passed at Berkeley at the time the degree is awarded may be taken on a S/U basis. Students may earn no more than 8 units of 601 in a semester. 
                            
                            M.A. students may not fulfill more than 8 of the required units by courses graded "Satisfactory."Research PapersTwo research papers, one of which must demonstrate bibliographic mastery of a given topic, must be placed on file in the departmental office at least four weeks prior to the first M.A. examination. These papers may be written in the context of coursework taken for the M.A., or may be written independently of coursework, under the supervision of a faculty member. Any paper submitted as an M.A. paper must be approved by the faculty member for whom it was written, as well as by the M. A. committee. Faculty members indicate their approval by signing the title page form provided to them by the student (and obtained from the Graduate Student Services Adviser).Advancement to Candidacy for the M.A. DegreeStudents must be advanced to candidacy prior to taking their comprehensive M.A. examinations. The department must submit to the Graduate Division the “Application for Candidacy” form, signed by the Department’s Head Graduate Adviser, no later than the end of the fifth week of classes of the semester in which the student plans to take the M.A. examinations. Such a petition cannot be filed until one-half of the required coursework has been completed. The student's petition for candidacy must be filed after the student satisfies the European language exam requirement (see above) and before the student appears for the M.A. examination. M.A. ExaminationsThe student must successfully complete written examinations covering one major and two minor fields. These are set and graded by the student's M.A. committee. For students in language programs, at least one of the examinations will include a translation of a text from the student's major language into English. Use of a dictionary (or other appropriate aids, where dictionaries as such are not available) may or may not be permitted. A question of bibliographical nature will also be included. All examinations must be written in the English language. For a list of possible fields of examination for the M.A. degree, see Appendix I. These examinations are not scheduled for the summer or inter-session, and only in special circumstances will they be scheduled for the first few weeks of a semester.M.A. Examinations in Detail:The focus and scope of each examination will be decided by members of the student's M.A. committee in consultation with the student. The student should confer with each member of the committee about required reading for the examinations. Copies of all reading lists supplied for the examination should be distributed to each member of the student's M.A. committee. The student who is studying for the examinations may receive up to 8 units of credit per semester by enrolling in NES 601, "Individual Studies for Master's Students." These units cannot be applied toward fulfillment of the required 24 units of coursework. Further, these units do not count toward the establishment of academic residency. At the beginning of the semester when the student intends to take the exam, the student must fill out the online examination scheduling form (provided by the Graduate Student Services Adviser). Each member of his or her advisory committee indicates their willingness to serve on the examination committee by agreeing to the selected exam topics and dates. All three examinations must be taken within the course of 7 days. Examination dates will be set by the Graduate Student Services staff in consultation with the student and the M.A. committee. The student may not take an M.A. examination unless he or she has been advanced to candidacy by the Graduate Division (see above). Students must allow time between the last written examination and the end of the semester for a Permission to Proceed examination, which enables them to move on to the Ph.D. program.The M.A. degree is awarded on the basis of the student's performance on the written examinations described above. The faculty committee will decide whether or not to recommend the degree within a week of the completion of the written examination.At the discretion of the student's M.A. committee, a student may be awarded a "superior" pass in the M.A. examination. If the student fails the examination, the committee may recommend for or against a repeat examination. If part of the examination is unsatisfactory, the student may be asked to take all or part of the examination again, or may be asked to do additional work to meet the M.A. committee's criteria for a satisfactory examination. A third attempt is not permitted.Permission to Proceed ExaminationWithin three weeks after completing all of the M.A. degree requirements (including successful passage of the M.A. examinations), the student must take an oral Permission to Proceed examination, which must be taken by the last day of the semester. This examination is normally given by the student's M.A. advisory committee. It is scheduled by the Graduate Student Services staff in consultation with the student and the committee.The student should meet with the Graduate Student Services Adviser early in the semester to schedule this examination. The purpose of the examination is to determine whether or not the student is ready to pursue research and study at the doctoral level, and is capable of completing such research and study in an acceptable period of time.IV.              PH.D. DEGREEEvaluation of Students Admitted Directly to the Ph.D. ProgramStudents who hold an M.A. or equivalent degree from another institution (or another UC department) may be admitted directly to the Ph.D. degree program upon their admission to the Department. Students in this category whose preparation is deemed inadequate in some subjects may be required to undertake appro­priate coursework. At the end of the first year of study, the records of such students will be examined by their advisory committee (principal faculty Adviser and two other faculty members with whom the student has taken coursework), and a decision will be made by that committee as to whether the student may remain in the Ph.D. program.Progress Reviews of Students Enrolled in the Ph.D. ProgramEach student's progress will be reviewed on a regular basis at annual meetings scheduled by the student with at least two members of the student's committee. Please see the section entitled “Normative Time” for the suggested rate of progress toward the Ph.D. degree.Pre-Candidacy RequirementsAcademic Residence and Other Residence RequirementsAcademic Senate legislation requires a minimum of 4 semesters of academic residence for the Ph.D. degree. A student must enroll in and complete a minimum of 4 units of upper division or graduate courses in each of the required semesters. Only courses in the 100 or 200 series fulfill this requirement. Semesters spent in the Department for an M.A. program may be used to satisfy this requirement if those semesters are additional to the two required for the M.A. Thus, students who earn the M.A. and Ph.D. must register for a total of 6 semesters. The student must be registered when taking the written preliminary and oral comprehensive qualifying examinations and during any other semester when faculty time and/or the use of University facilities is required.Ph.D. courseworkAfter passing the Permission to Proceed examination at the M.A. level, or after being admitted directly into the Ph.D. program, the student is encouraged to meet as soon as possible with his/her Ph.D. examination committee (see below) to establish a program of coursework for the Ph.D. Although there are no specific required courses for the Ph.D. program, it is expected that a student will include, at a minimum, seminar work in at least two divisions of the Department. All graduate students are required to be enrolled in 12 units of classes in order to be considered registered full time. Not more than one third of the total units (excluding those in the 300 or 600 series) that the student has passed at Berkeley at the time the degree is awarded may be taken on a S/U basis. Students may earn no more than 8 units of 602 in a semester.Ph.D. Examination CommitteeThe student, in consultation with his or her departmental Graduate Adviser, must select a four-member faculty committee to guide him or her in preparation for the written preliminary and oral comprehensive qualifying examinations. One member of this committee must be a member of the Berkeley Academic Senate from outside the Department of Near Eastern Studies.The chair of the examination committee may not direct the dissertation, and must be a faculty member of the Department of Near Eastern Studies. As soon as possible after admission, the student should try, with the committee's assistance, to define one major and two minor fields of study (fields on which the student will be examined during both the written preliminary and oral qualifying examination) and to plan coursework and language study with these examination fields in mind.Near Eastern Languages for Archaeology/Art History StudentsEgyptian Archaeology and Art History majors must pass a proficiency exam in Egyptian and/or Coptic before the written preliminary examinations are taken. Near Eastern Archaeology/Art History students must complete a minimum of two years course work in an ancient Near Eastern language or must pass a proficiency examination in an ancient Near Eastern language before taking the preliminary examinations. The language proficiency examinations will be three hours in duration and will test for competence in texts selected for their relevance to the student's program. When requested, the language proficiency examinations will be arranged by the Graduate Services staff in consultation with the student and the examiners. Prior to registering for courses in the first semester of Ph.D. coursework, the student should consult with the relevant Graduate Adviser as to what language might be appropriate for his/her program of study.Modern European LanguagesAll Ph.D. students must have passed reading examinations in two modern European languages before proceeding to the preliminary examinations. The modern language examinations will follow the form prescribed under the M.A. requirements (see above). Students who have passed through an M.A. program of this department will already have satisfied the requirement in at least one language. Credit is not given for language examinations taken at other schools. Fieldwork for Students in Egyptian and Near Eastern Archaeology/Art HistoryEach student specializing in Egyptian or Near Eastern Archaeology/Art History must acquire practical experience in archaeology or museum studies. The student should confer with his or her examination committee on ways of gaining this experience, which may include participation in excavations, study in approved museums, or other activities related to fieldwork and approved by the examination committee.Ph.D. ExaminationsThe Department requires that its doctoral students pass comprehensive writ­ten preliminary examinations before proceeding to the comprehensive oral quali­fying examination. Students are eligible to take the written examinations after completing all of the requirements for the Ph.D. outlined above. Early in the semester in which the examinations are to occur, the student must discuss the scheduling of these exams with the Graduate Student Services Adviser, who will file the required application for the student's admission to the qualifying examination with the Graduate Division (see below about the timeline of the application). At the beginning of the semester when the student intends to take the exam, the student must fill out the online examination scheduling form and must obtain the approval of all four examination committee members, indicating their willingness to conduct his/her comprehensive written preliminary examinations and the comprehensive oral qualifying examination. The Graduate student Services staff will schedule the examinations in consultation with the student, based on the availability of one’s exam committee members. These examinations are not scheduled for the summer or intersession, and only in special circumstances will they be scheduled for the first few weeks of a semester. According to the Graduate Division regulations, the faculty member who chairs the student's preliminary and qualifying examination committee may not chair the student's dissertation committee.Applications for admission to the qualifying examination must be filed with the Graduate Division by the Department no later than three weeks prior to the proposed date of the examination. This application will specify the three fields of study to be covered during the examination.Written Preliminary ExaminationsStudents must complete one written comprehensive examination for each subject area specified in the application to be covered during the comprehensive oral qualifying examination. Three comprehensive written examinations are required, therefore, to cover the student's major subject area and two minor areas. All of these examinations must be completed in a 7-day period. Students wishing to take comprehensive preliminary and qualifying examinations must inform (by filling out the electronic form) the Graduate Student Services Adviser early in the semester in which these examinations are to be taken. The examinations will be scheduled upon consultation with the student and examiners. The comprehensive preliminary examinations may be of any written form determined by the examiners, but it is suggested that they should consist of a choice of not more than three from a wide range of essay questions. Students should consult with their committee members well in advance concerning the form, which each examination will take.For all students in the department, except those in Archaeology/Art History specializations, the comprehensive written preliminary examinations will include examinations in at least two Near Eastern languages. The Near Eastern language requirements in the Archaeology/Art History programs are described in the section (above) of "Near Eastern Languages for Archaeology/Art history Students."Any student who fails a written examination in one or more subject area(s) twice may be referred to the Dean of the Graduate Division for dismissal from the Ph.D. program.Qualifying ExaminationThe qualifying examination is a comprehensive oral examination conducted by the four faculty members of the student's Ph.D. examination committee, one of whom must be a Berkeley Academic Senate member from outside the Department of Near Eastern Studies. The examination is designed to reveal the breadth and depth of the student's knowledge, as well as his or her sophistication of reasoning. It is therefore not to be concerned narrowly, nor to be concerned solely with a dissertation prospectus. Based on the student's performance, the faculty will determine whether the candidate is ready to enter the research phase of Ph.D. study. A report on the student's examination performance, signed by all four examiners, is submitted to the Graduate Division. Application for the Qualifying Examination form is available at: 
  <http://grad.berkeley.edu/academic-progress/forms/>.
  
                            Students are eligible to take the comprehensive oral qualifying examination after passing the written preliminary examinations. The oral examination should take place within 10 business days of the last written preliminary examination and before the end of the semester. If the student fails the qualifying examination, the committee may recommend for or against a repeat examination. A third examination is not permitted.Advancement to Candidacy to Ph.D.After the student passes the qualifying examination, they must apply for advancement to candidacy: http://grad.berkeley.edu/academic-progress/forms/.Before filing this application, the student must first obtain approval of a dissertation prospectus on an appropriate topic from his/her proposed dissertation committee. The prospectus should include a detailed outline, a short essay-type description of the dissertation, and a bibliography. It is important that the student follows the Graduate Division’s application procedures and deadlines. For more information see: http://grad.berkeley.edu/policy/degrees-policy/#f28-advancement-to-candidacy-for-a-doctoral-degree.  Following consultation with the student, the Faculty Graduate Adviser may recommend a dissertation committee of three members. This committee is to be chaired by the departmental Academic Senate member most directly concerned with the student's research. This cannot be the same person who chaired the student's qualifying examination committee. If the student's research is such that different aspects of it are the chief concerns of different members of the committee, and no single member directs the whole, then joint chairs may be appointed. One member of the committee must be a Berkeley Academic Senate member from a department other than Near Eastern Studies. The names of the faculty proposed for the dissertation committee and a tentative dissertation title are submitted to the Graduate Division on the Application for Candidacy form. The Graduate Division charges a fee of $90.00, which must be paid when the application for candidacy is filed. When the application is approved by the Graduate Dean, the student becomes a candidate for the Ph.D. degree.Candidate in Philosophy DegreeThe C.Phil. degree, which gives formal recognition to a definite state of progress toward the doctorate, may be awarded after the student is advanced to candidacy for the Ph.D. degree. Typically, a student who is advanced to candidacy in the fall semester will be on the C.Phil. degree list the following May, and those advanced in the spring semester will be on the degree list the following December. Academic Progress ReportDoctoral students who have advanced to Candidacy are required to complete the online form of Academic Progress Report <https://gradlink.berkeley.edu/GLOW/> each year until they complete the program.DissertationSpecific University requirements for dissertation format, filing, and deadlines are found in the "Dissertation Writing and Filing," section of the Graduate Division’s website: <http://grad.berkeley.edu/academic-progress/dissertation/>. 
                            
                            The completed dissertation must be signed by all members of the dissertation committee. A final examination for the Ph.D. degree may be required by the dissertation committee. It is the student's responsibility to maintain contact with all members of the committee and to arrange for each member to have enough time to review each stage of the dissertation. Students must be registered when drafts of their dissertations are being read by faculty members. Students who meet the stipulations for use of the Filing Fee may petition to pay the Filing Fee in lieu of registration fees for the semester in which the dissertation is filed. Filing Fee status is not a form of registration and student services are reduced accordingly. Refer to this page for the dissertation filing deadlines: <http://www.grad.berkeley.edu/policies/degree_filing_deadlines.shtm>.Dissertation Colloquium for Ph.D. Candidates in Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Programs
                            
                            All Ph.D. students in the Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern programs are required to give an oral presentation (approximately 45 minutes) on their dissertation. The candidate should consult with his or her dissertation Advisers to determine the scope of the presentation. The colloquium should be scheduled during the advanced stages of the dissertation and must be attended by the candidate’s dissertation inside committee members. It is expected that all graduate students and faculty in ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern studies will attend dissertation colloquia. V.               FINANCIAL ASSISTANCEFor the upcoming academic year awards for continuing students, the application deadline is in late January for FLAS (Foreign Language and Area Studies) Awards and will probably be early January for the above-mentioned awards:
  <http://grad.berkeley.edu/financial/fellowships/>.For information on the Doctoral Completion Fellowship (DCF), which is offered to students in the Ph.D. program who are making good progress and who are advanced to candidacy, see the Graduate Division's web page at: <http://grad.berkeley.edu/financial/fellowships/>.
                            
                            The Graduate Division also awards a highly competitive one-year fellowship, the Dissertation Year Fellowship (DYF), for students completing the dissertation. Each spring faculty are invited to nominate students for this award. Multi-year UC fellowships (most of which are available for incoming students only) and FLAS fellowships are administered through the Graduate Division on the basis of a campus-wide competition. <http://grad.berkeley.edu/admissions/apply/fellowships-entering/>.
  
                          Competition for smaller stipends and for nonresident tuition waivers is department based. Continuing students apply for FLAS Awards through TANGO at <https://tango.berkeley.edu/applicant/app/start>. Students obtain applications for all other awards at the Department office, 250 Barrows Hall, and review of these applications will begin immediately after the application deadline. All parts of the application, including transcripts and letters of recommendation, must be received by the appropriate office by that time. In order to be eligible for many of these funds, students must complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), available at the Graduate Division (www.grad.berkeley.edu/financial/aid/) or at <http://www.fafsa.ed.gov>. FLAS fellowships are available to students studying modern Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, or Turkish. These awards are made to students who are: (a) U.S. citizens or nationals, or have permanent resident status.
                            (b) are in advanced training in a foreign language or area studies, or are involved in research and training in the international aspects of professional and other fields of study. These fellowships pay registration fees and a stipend, plus nonresident tuition, if required. University policies for graduate students allow most U.S. citizens and U.S. residents to establish California residency for tuition purposes after demonstrating residence in California and financial independence for one year preceding the request for resident status.Graduate Diversity ProgramIt is the purpose of this Graduate Division program to support underrepresented students who are U.S. citizens or U.S. residents. Awards are made for one year only to Master's students and for two years to doctoral students. The University has identified African Americans, Chicanos/Latinos, Native American Indians, and Filipinos as the most severely underrepresented, and it recognizes that Asian Americans are underrepresented in certain fields. Applicants are urged to read carefully the materials in the Graduate Division application materials concerning this program. To receive a merit-based GDP fellowship, a student must have demonstrated outstanding scholarly achievement.Financial Aid OfficeStudents may apply for several types of non-fellowship aid through the University Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships via Cal Student Central in 120 Sproul Hall. Applications for financial aid (including work-study) are due in the Financial Aid Office by early February of the academic year prior to the academic year for which aid is sought. For the exact deadline and for a complete description of the various types of long-term and emergency aid available, please consult the Financial Aid office <http://financialaid.berkeley.edu/>. Students with work-study eligibility may apply for employment in the library and other facilities of the Department; applications should be submitted to the Department Manager, 250E Barrows Hall.Graduate Student Instruction/Graduate Student ResearchEvery year, the Department appoints graduate students as Graduate Student Instructors (GSI) to teach discussion sections of lecture courses and sections of language courses. By mid-December of each academic year, any student who is interested in a Graduate Student Instructor position for the next academic year should submit an electronic application. Decisions regarding appointments are made in writing early in spring semester. Except under unusual circumstances, no awards are made to students who have not gone through this application process. Graduate Division policies on these appointments can be found at <http://grad.berkeley.edu/policy/appointments-policy/>.   Further InformationFor information on fellowships and scholarships offered by outside agencies, check with the Graduate Division Fellowship Office, 318 Sproul Hall:
  <http://grad.berkeley.edu/news/announcements/guide-to-fellowships-grants/>,
  <http://grad.berkeley.edu/financial/fellowships/>; and the Townsend Center for the Humanities <http://townsendcenter.berkeley.edu/>.
  
                            The bulletin boards inside and outside of 250 Barrows Hall have information about various grants and fellowships for which students may apply. Students are encouraged to investigate and pursue external funding possibilities.VI.              DEADLINES AND PROCEDURESStudents are expected to inform themselves of deadlines set by the Office of the Registrar and Graduate Division pertaining to such matters as paying fees, filing forms, and obtaining adviser signatures relative to registration, readmission, degree matters, financial aid applications, and so forth. Sources of information are the departmental bulletin boards, the Online Schedule of Classes, the Berkeley Academic Guide, and other publications.The Department provides graduate students with mailboxes to facilitate communication with students and between members of the Department. The Department requests that students do not use the Department address for receipt of regular mail.VII.             ACCESS TO RECORDSStudents are entitled by law and University policy to examine and challenge most of the records that the University maintains on individual students. These records are confidential and, in most circumstances, may be released to third parties only with the student's prior consent. Such matters are detailed in the "Berkeley Campus Policy Governing Disclosure of Information from Student Records," available in the Office of the Registrar, 120 Sproul Hall, and online:
  <http://registrar.berkeley.edu/Records/ferpa.html>.
  
  VIII.            EMAILThe Office of Information Systems and Technology (IST), User and Account Services, provides free email accounts for students on bMail (basic email accounts powered by Google): <http://bconnected.berkeley.edu/>). Check IST Service Center for more information at: <http://ist.berkeley.edu/support/service-desk>.IX.              CAREER CENTERThe Career Center, 2440 Bancroft Way, 642-1716, <https://career.berkeley.edu/>, provides services to aid in all aspects of the job search, including individual counseling, workshops, a computer and information lab, academic and other professional job listings, and letter of reference files. It also has part-time, temporary, summer, and other employment listings.X.               EXCHANGE PROGRAMSIntercampus ProgramA graduate student registered at any campus of the University may attend another campus of the University as an Intercampus Exchange Graduate Student. This exchange must have the approval of the Graduate Adviser in the Department of Near Eastern Studies, the Chair of the Department in which the exchange study is proposed, and the Dean of the Graduate Division on the Berkeley campus. Requests must be submitted to the Graduate Adviser; applications are available from the Graduate Division, 318 Sproul Hall, and online:
  <http://grad.berkeley.edu/programs/exchange-programs/>.Stanford-Berkeley Exchange ProgramUpon approval of the Department, the Graduate Division, and Stanford University, students with superior records may take courses at Stanford that are not offered at Berkeley. Participants register and pay applicable fees at Berkeley. Students must enroll in a least one course at Berkeley.Exchange Scholar ProgramThe Exchange Scholar Program enables a graduate student enrolled in a doctoral program in one of the participating institutions (UCB, Brown, University of Chicago, Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, MIT, Princeton, Stanford, Yale, and University of Pennsylvania) to study at one of the other graduate schools for a limited period of time in order to take advantage of particular educational opportunities not available on the home campus. The academic experience, including courses taken and/or research conducted with particular faculty at the visited institution will be registered on the academic record maintained by the student's home institution. Students in the Ph.D. program are eligible for this program only after completing one year of study in a graduate program at UCB. A minimum of one term and a maximum of one academic year is permitted in the program. Applications for the program are available from the Graduate Division, 318 Sproul Hall, and online.Education Abroad ProgramGraduate students who have been admitted for study toward a higher degree may apply for study abroad under the University-wide Education Abroad Program. An applicant must have completed at least one year in residence before departure for study abroad, and must demonstrate language proficiency where required. The University of California has study centers at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the University of Haifa in Israel, and at the American University in Cairo, Egypt. For further information on these programs, contract the office of Berkeley Programs for Study Abroad, 160 Stephens Hall <http://studyabroad.berkeley.edu/>. Graduate students must obtain the sponsorship of a faculty member at the host institution. This is arranged through the Programs for Study Abroad office.Cross-Registration Programs with Local InstitutionsThese programs allow students to attend California State University Hayward, San Francisco, and Sonoma; Dominican, Holy Names, Mills, and St. Mary's Colleges; and John F. Kennedy University with the approval of the Graduate Division and the Department. Students may enroll for only one course per semester at these institutions and must register and pay applicable fees at Berkeley. Graduate students may register at Berkeley and take courses at the Graduate Theological Union (GTU), 2465 LeConte Avenue, Berkeley 94709, (510) 649-2400, (http://gtu.edu/academics); subject to appropriate academic approvals.XI.              LIBRARIESDoe and Moffitt LibrariesDoe Library, the main campus library, has special collections of Islamica and Judaica/Hebraica materials (both administered in 438 Doe), as well as standard collections related to all research interests of members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies. Moffitt Library houses books supporting the undergraduate curriculum, including those placed on class reserve.The Bancroft LibraryThe Bancroft Library is housed in the Library Annex on the east side of Doe Library 
                            (http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/libraries/bancroft-library). Its collections contain rare books and manuscripts, including an extensive group of papyri from Egypt in the Center for Tebtunis Papyri. See the Bancroft’s website for access information (http://bancroft.berkeley.edu/info/). NES Departmental LibrariesThe NES Department has several specialized departmental libraries focusing on areas taught by the department. These libraries are non-circulating and also may be used for advanced seminar classes. Separate libraries exist for Islamic Studies (Arabic, Turkish, and Persian, including the Mahjoub Persian Library) and Hebrew and Semitic Studies. The Cuneiform Seminar Room incorporates the Ancient Near Eastern collection, and the Baer-Keller Library of Egyptology houses the department's Egyptology collection. Graduate students and undergraduate majors are eligible to have their own library keys upon approval by relevant faculty. Others may apply for admission to a library as needed on an occasional basis.Graduate Theological Union (GTU)The Graduate Theological Union Library, 2400 Ridge Road, Berkeley, has extensive holdings, which are open for use by all UC students. The GTU has its own library card, which can be acquired by presenting a current UC registration card at the circulation desk. The collection concentrates on the areas of religion (including Old and New Testament, and some Islamic materials), Near Eastern languages (especially Hebrew, Greek, Coptic, and Comparative Semitics) and Syro-Palestinian history and archaeology for all periods.Research Library Cooperative ProgramThrough this inter-library lending program, Berkeley students may obtain titles from the Stanford and UT Austin libraries. The books are made available to the student at the Berkeley circulation desk or in Interlibrary Services, respectively. Some patrons are also eligible to visit the partner libraries and check out materials.Art History/Classics Library ServiceThe Classics and History of Art Departments maintain an important slide collection and a Graduate Library Service on the third floor of Doe Library. The collection is non-circulating and contains basic material on Classics, archaeology, and art.Anthropology LibraryThe Department of Anthropology maintains a substantial collection of reference and source materials on anthropology and archaeology on the second floor of Kroeber Hall.Architecture LibraryThe library of the Department of Architecture in Wurster Hall holds a substantial collection of slides dealing with Islamic monuments in the Middle East, as well as reference source materials on Near Eastern architecture, and urban planning.Law LibraryThe Boalt Hall School of Law library has holdings in Islamic, Jewish, and ancient law, which may be used on the premises.XII.             MUSEUMSMaterials relating to the study of the ancient medieval and modern Near East are housed in the following museums in the Bay Area:The Asian Art Museum            
                            200 Larkin Street, SF (415) 581-3500
                            http://www.asianart.org/The Bàde Museum of Biblical Archaeology            
                            1798 Scenic, Berkeley, (510)849-8272
                            (Primarily Iron Age artifacts from Tell en-Nasbeh, Palestine)
                            http://psr.edu/bade/California Academy of Sciences
                            55 Music Concourse Dr., Golden Gate Park, SF (415) 379-8000
                            http://www.calacademy.org/The Palace of the Legion of Honor
                            Lincoln Park, 100 34th Avenue, SF (415) 750-3600
                            (Islamic and Greek holdings)
                            http://legionofhonor.famsf.org/Hearst Museum of Anthropology
                            103 Kroeber Hall, Berkeley Campus, (510) 642-3682
                            http://hearstmuseum.berkeley.eduThe Rosicrucian Museum
                            1660 Park Ave, San Jose, (408) 947-3635
                            http://www.egyptianmuseum.org/Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Center for Visual Arts
                            328 Lomita Drive, Stanford campus, Palo Alto, (650) 723-4177
                            http://museum.stanford.edu/The Judah L. Magnes Museum
                            2121 Allston Way, Berkeley, (510) 643-2526
                            http://www.magnes.org/ APPENDIX I
                            Fields of Examinations for the M.A. DegreeCultural   History
                                A. Islamic Civilization
                                1. Islamic Religion
                                2. Islamic Institutions
                                3. Islamic Legal Theory
                                4. Islamic Philosophy and Theology
                                B. Jewish Civilization
                                1. Biblical Religion
                                2. Judaism in Hellenistic Times
                                3. Judaism in Late Antiquity
                                4. Judaism in Medieval Times
                                5. Judaism in Islamic Lands
                                C. Ancient Civilizations of the Middle East
                                1. Art and Archaeology of Central Asia /   Silk Road
                                2. Near Eastern Archaeology
                                3. Near Eastern Art and Architecture
                                4. Ancient Near Eastern History
                                5. Ancient Near Eastern Science and Knowledge
                                6. Near Eastern Religion
                                7. Egyptian Archaeology 
                                8. Egyptian History
                                9. Art and Architecture of Ancient Egypt
                                10. Egyptian Religion
                               
                            
                            APPENDIX II NES Faculty and their Research Specialties and Interests:Wali Ahmadi: Professor of Persian Literature
                            Classical and Modern Persian Literature Asad Q. Ahmed: Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic StudiesDaniel Boyarin: Taubman Professor of Rabbinic Literature
                            Cultural Studies in Talmud and Midrash; Gender and Sexuality; Hermeneutics; 
                            Ancient Judaism and ChristianityAhmad Diab: Assistant Professor of Arabic Literature
                            Modern Arabic Literature 
                            
                            Ronald S. Hendel: Dabby Professor of Hebrew Bible
  Ancient Hebrew Language, Literature, Religion and CultureChana Kronfeld: Professor of Modern Hebrew and Comparative Literature 
                            Hebrew, Yiddish, Poetics, Literary Historiography Margaret Larkin: Professor of Arabic Literature
                            Classical Arabic Literature 
                            
                            Rita Lucarelli: Assistant Professor of Egyptology
                              Religion of ancient Egypt, ancient Egyptian religious iconography; hieratic magical and funerary textsBenjamin Porter: Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Archaeology
                            Investigation of social life, technology, authority, and empires, as well as intellectual history and critical inquiryCarol Redmount: Associate Professor of Egyptian Archaeology
                            Egyptian Archaeology; Syro-Palestinian and Biblical Archaeology; Ancient Ceramics Francesca Rochberg: Professor of Assyriology
                            Ancient Mesopotamia, Science and religion, Akkadian
                            
                            Niek Veldhuis: Professor of Assyriology
  Ancient Mesopotamian Languages and Cultures
  
  Emeriti Faculty:Hamid Algar: Professor of Near Eastern Studies
                            Persian Literature: Islamic Culture, Religion, Philosophy; Sufism and the Qur'an 
                            Robert B. Alter: Professor of Hebrew and Comparative Literature; Hebrew Literature, Modern, Medieval, and Biblical 
                            Guitty Azarpay: Professor of Near Eastern Art
                            Ariel A. Bloch: Professor of Near Eastern Studies
                            Wolfgang J. Heimpel: Professor of Assyriology
                            Anne D. Kilmer: Professor of Assyriology
                            James T. Monroe: Professor of Arabic Literature and Comparative Literature
                            Martin Schwartz: Professor of Iranian Studies: Pre-Islamic Iranian Language, Culture and Society; Middle Persian and Iranian Philology; Zoroastrianism; Manichaeism
                            Muhammad Siddiq: Professor of Arabic Literature, Arabic and Hebrew Literature 
                            David B. Stronach: Professor of Near Eastern Archaeology 
                                  						  
								    All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.Gil Breger, Cuneiform Studies.
                          Gil is a Ph.D. student in the Cuneiform Studies program. He received a B.A and an M.A. in Archaeology and Ancient Near Eastern Cultures from Tel Aviv University, Israel. He also received a B.A. in East Asian Studies from the same institution. Focusing his studies mostly on the languages of the Ancient Near East, he nonetheless participated in numerous archaeological excavations all over Israel, directing several of them. He is primarily interested in Babylonian astronomy and the intersection between the practice of astronomy and its place in society. Gil is also exploring diverse uses of Digital Humanities in facilitating and enhancing research in Assyriology.                          
                          
                            Stephanie Brown, Near Eastern Archaeology.
                            Stephanie is a Ph.D. student specializing in the archaeology  of the Southern Levant. She received a B.A. in History and a M.A. in Ancient  Mediterranean History, both at North Carolina State University. Her primary  area of interest is the archaeology of Iron Age Jordan, and her research looks  at subsistence strategies of nomadic and semi-nomadic populations in southern  Jordan, specifically while under the influence of the Neo-Assyrian,  Neo-Babylonian, and Persian Empires.
                                                                                                       
                          Andrea Creel, Near Eastern Archaeology. (Web)
                          Ritual and Religion, Materiality, Practice, Memory, Landscape, Embodiment, Gender and Identity in the Bronze & Iron Age Southern Levant. 
                          Andrea received her Bachelor of Arts in Religious Studies from DePaul University in 2005 and her Master of Arts in Near Eastern Studies from the University of California, Berkeley in 2009. Currently a Candidate of Philosophy in Near Eastern Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, her dissertation, "Ritual on the Rural Road: Memory, Materiality, Landscape and Nesting Liminalities in the Southern Levantine Drylands," focuses on contextualizing Iron Age ritual activity at Ḥorvat Qitmit in the Negev and Kuntillet ʾAjrûd in the Sinai within the meshwork of both their geographic and temporal landscapes and the mulitple, overlapping, intersecting senses of liminality entangled within those landscapes. She is a former National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow and former Educational and Cultural Affairs Fellow at the W.F. Albright Institute for Archaeological Research. She is also a former curator at the Badè  Museum of Biblical Archaeology in Berkeley, California. Having previously excavated in Chicago, Illinois and Ashkelon, Israel, Andrea now excavates with the Tel Jezreel Expedition in  Israel, sponsored by the University of Evansville and the University of Haifa. 
                          
                          
                          Shirelle Maya Doughty
 Shirelle is a doctoral student focusing on Israeli and Palestinian cinema and literature as part of her broader engagement with the role of art in constructing group identities and in creating conditions that enable (or break down) tolerance between groups. 
                              
                            Eduardo Escobar, Cuneiform Studies; Designated Emphasis in Science & Technology Studies 
                              (http://cstms.berkeley.edu/people/eduardo-a-escobar/).
                            I study the languages, historiography, and epistemology of science and  technology in Assyrian and Babylonian scholarship. My research focuses  on technical and medical procedural recipes from the ancient Middle  East, composed in Akkadian on cuneiform tablets during the late second  and first millennia BCE. My dissertation ("Technology as Knowledge: A  Study of Cuneiform Procedural Recipes and Materials") seeks to  understand the nature of procedural recipe knowledge, and, in addition,  to employ digital tools for the disambiguation of rare technical terms.  To this end, I have incorporated network analysis tools into my  dissertation in order to produce semantic networks of technical  ingredients in context: http://digitalhumanities.berkeley.edu/blog/15/11/24/dh-fellow-eduardo-escobar-analyzing-social-networks-and-semantic-networks-assyriology.  In addition  to UC Berkeley, I have studied at The Cooper Union for the  Advancement of Science and Art, Columbia University, and  more  recently, as a visiting student at the Department of History and   Philosophy of Science at The University of Cambridge.Yedidya Etzion, Near Eastern Religions.
                            Yedidya Etzion is a Ph.D. candidate in the joint doctoral  program for Near Eastern Religions. He received a B.A. in Bible and  Jewish Studies and a M.A. in Jewish History, both form the Hebrew University of  Jerusalem. His main focus is on Hellenistic Judaism,  Rabbinic literature and culture and The Dead Sea Scrolls. More  specifically he is interested in the relationship between modes of  interpretation, theology and Jewish law in late antiquity. Currently Yedidya is  writing his dissertation on Philo of Alexandria and the development of Jewish  Law. Ayelet Even-Nur, Hebrew Language and Literature. 
                              Middle Eastern Literatures.
 Ayelet Even-Nur began her graduate studies at   Berkeley in 2011, where she works in English, Hebrew, and Arabic.   Primary academic interests include the converging sites of   multilinualism and translation; memory and identity; subject   formation through the grammars of law and language; and potential   intersections of poetry and politics.Amin Ehteshami, Islamic Studies
Amin Ehteshami is a doctoral student in Islamic studies. His research primarily focuses on Shiʿi thought​; Islamic intellectual history; exegesis of the Qurʾan; and theology.

                          Aria Fani, Persian Language and literature.  (Web)
 Aria Fani studies the contemporary poetry and literary historiography of the Persianate world as well as the social space of Persian in South Asia.
                        
                            
                          Muhammad U. Faruque, Islamic Studies.
Qur'anic exegesis, Islamic philosophy and theology, philosophical Sufism, Persian and Arabic literature, contemporary topics in Islamic thought.
 Muhammad U. Faruque is a PhD student specializing in Islamic thought, philosophy, and Persian (mystical) literature. His research focuses on Graeco-Arabica, Islamic philosophy and theology (especially, post-classical philosophy), and philosophical Sufism. Muhammad received his B.Sc. in Economics from the University of London in 2011. After his graduation, motivated by an increasing awareness at that time of the absolutely essential nature of learning primary languages well enough to deal with classical Islamic texts, he travelled to Iran to explore the Islamic intellectual tradition in depth. He managed to learn Persian in six months and merited entrance to the M.A. program in Islamic philosophy at Tehran University (the entire MA program is taught in Persian, based on reading original Arabic texts) where he completed his dissertation (Jun 2014) on Mullā Ṣadrā’s and Dāwūd Qayṣarī’s metaphysics, with particular emphasis on their treatment of the “absolutely unconditioned being.” He has also authored and co-authored a number of articles in Persian and English, including one on the primacy of the self (atman) in Advaita Vedanta and light (al-nūr, as principle of consciousness) in Suhrawardī (d. 1191) and the school of Illumination. He is also the recipient of a number of awards including the prestigious The Berkeley Fellowship for Graduate Study. 
Web: http://berkeley.academia.edu/MuhammadUFaruqueDonna Honarpisheh, Persian Studies.
 Donna Honarpisheh is a PhD student   specializing in contemporary Persian literature. Her research interests   include modernist Persian fiction, Iranian intellectual history,   Shi'ism, postcoloniality, critical theory, and a politics of affect.  Daniel S. Fisher, Hebrew Bible.
                            Biblical Hebrew language and literature, historiography in  the Hebrew Bible, textual criticism, reception history, social memory studies,  material culture studies, religious and literary traditions of the ancient Near  East
                            Daniel Fisher is a doctoral candidate in the Department of  Near Eastern Studies at UC Berkeley. Daniel’s research explores social,  historical, and literary questions in the Hebrew Bible and early Jewish  biblical interpretation. He is currently writing a dissertation entitled,  “Memories of the Ark: Cultural Memory, Material Culture, and the Construction  of the Past in Biblical Societies.” The project develops a cultural biography  of the Ark of the Covenant, exploring its use and reuse as a site of memory  before and after its loss. ”Memories of the Ark” examines the central roles  that objects play in the Hebrew Bible, considering the ways that biblical  writers and early biblical interpreters engaged with objects--at times  claiming, reimagining, and contesting them, but almost always remembering with  them.                            Roy A. Fisher, Near Eastern Religions. 
                            Social memory and identity construction in early   biblical interpretation.Linda Istanbulli, Arabic Language and literature.
                              Victoria Jensen, Egyptology.
Vicky Jensen received an A.B. in Political Science (1987) and A.M. in   International Relations (1988) from The University of Chicago.  After a   successful career of helping university faculty and medical staff obtain   research grants, she is now pursuing her own academic passion of   studying Egyptology.  Vicky has had fieldwork experience at Abydos,   where she worked on the Ahmose-Tetisheri Project under the leadership of   Dr. Stephen Harvey.  She has two particular research interests:  the   Predynastic period and its tremendous social and theological changes,   and the transition from the 17th to 18th dynasty and the power exercised   by royal women during that time period.
                            Matthew Ong
Matthew Ong obtained a BA in mathematics from Princeton cum laude in 2003, and an MA in Near Eastern Studies from UCLA in 2010 and one in Linguistics from UCSC in 2013. In 2008 he was a Fulbright Scholar in Syria doing research on cuneiform collections in museums and studying Arabic. Between 2013 and 2015 he was in China teaching English and studying Chinese. His research interests include Babylonian astronomy and mathematics and comparison of ancient writing systems.Kea Johnston, Egyptology.
 Kea obtained  BAs in both Computer Science and Biology from Brown University in 2005, though she maintained an interest in Egyptology throughout her undergraduate studies. While at Brown, she was invited to go to Egypt as an epigrapher with the Brown/AUC expedition to the Abu Bakr Cemetery at Giza in 2005. Having been a software engineer for a decade, she is currently working towards a PhD in Egyptology. Her interests include the development of funerary art and iconography during the New Kingdom and Third Intermediate Period, as well as class differences amongst the Ancient Egyptians.Jessica   Kaiser, Egyptian Archaeology. 
                            Mortuary and field archaeology, osteology,   taphonomy, agency in sacred landscapes, cultural interaction and acculturation   in the 1st millennium BCE.
                            
                            Fateme Montazeri, Persian Studies
                            Fateme Montazeri is a PhD student of Persian Studies. She received her Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees from the University of Tehran, and moved to the United States to pursue her Ph.D. She completed the Master’s program of Islamic Arts at the Graduate Theological Union, in which she focused on Persian illustrated manuscripts of Middle Ages. Her thesis, “Why Death? An Inquiry into Text and Context of Persian painting,” deals with a 15th century manuscript of Layla and Majnun. Her research interests include Persian medieval literature, Sufi literature, codicology, early manuscripts of the Quran, and Islamic arts of the book—particularly calligraphy, Persian painting, and text-image relationship within manuscripts. 
                              Brooke Norton, Egyptian Archaeology
                          Brooke received her B.A. in archaeology from Boston University in 2011 and her M.A. in Ancient Near Eastern and Egyptian Studies from New York University in 2013. Her M.A. thesis focused on an examination of the archaeological contexts of a group of magical objects collectively known as Execration Texts. Brooke’s interests include Egyptian art and archeology, economic and cultural connections between Egypt and the Southern Levant, and execration figures. Brooke has excavation experience mainly in Egypt and Jordan; however, she also has experience in Israel, Italy, and most recently the USA. In Egypt, Brooke works in the Dakhla Oasis and in the Eastern Desert near Aswan. Madeline. L. Pruitt, Near Eastern Archaeology. 
                            Archaeology of inter-cultural relations, Middle   Bronze Age, Mesopotamia, Southern Levant, social memory, cultural identity. Jenna Stover-Kemp, Hebrew Bible.
 Jenna's work focuses on the Hebrew Bible, and particularly Pentateuchal traditions. Her approach combines multiple methods including critical theory, anthropology, and sociology, with a firm grounding in the Bible's historical ancient Near Eastern context and attention to issues of textual production. The questions she asks are primarily focused on issues of cultural memory, historiography, and the history of ideas in ancient Israel and Judah. Because the way that communities tell stories and compose their history reflects beliefs about who they are, examining traditions that are represented in multiple texts throughout various times and locations is fruitful ground for understanding how ancient Israelites and Judeans understood themselves and their world. 
 
                          Hassan Rezakhany, Islamic Studies. History of philosophy and science.
                          Hassan is a PhD student interested in intellectual history in Arabic and Persian sources.
                          Betty Rosen, Arabic and Hebrew Literature.
                          Betty Rosen is a doctoral student focusing on  Arabic and Hebrew literature. She earned her A.B. in Comparative  Literature from Harvard in 2012 and her MA in Arabic Literature from the  School of Oriental and African Studies in London in 2013. She is  interested in medieval Arabic theories of poetics and rhetoric—as well  as Hebrew texts that respond to those theories—and in reading this Near  Eastern critical tradition as an equal partner alongside the Continental  tradition. In doing so, she aims to enable new, productive, and  genuinely multicultural ways of thinking about the possibilities of  literature and literary thought.Pei-Chen Tsung, Arabic Language and Literature. 
                              Classical Arabic Literature.
 Pei-Chen  Tsung received her B.A in Arabic Language and Literature at National Chengchi  University (Taipei, Taiwan) and M.A in Arabic and Islamic Studies at Harvard  University. Her MA thesis is entitled “Beauty, Intoxication and Verbal Alchemy,  the Imagery of Abu Nuwās’ Wine Poetry through the Lens of al-Jurjānī’s Literary  Theory.” She is interested in classical Arabic literature and literary theory  and criticism. More specifically she is focusing on the imagery in the poem and  prose. Martin Weber, Near Eastern Art and Archaeology.Madeline Wyse, Hebrew Language and Literature
                              Rabbinic Literature, Arabic Literature, Religious History.
Madeline  Wyse received her B.A. in Classics and Mathematics from Pomona College  in 2011 and a second B.A. in Arabic Language and Literature from  Portland State University in 2015. She is interested the construction of  “religion” and demarcation of religious communities from the advent of  Christianity to the rise of Islam. 
                                  						  
								    All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.Graduate programs leading to the Ph.D. degree are   offered in  Arabic, Hebrew, and Persian languages and literatures, Near Eastern    Archaeology, Art History, Cuneiform, Hebrew Bible, Biblical and Judaic  Studies,   Egyptology, and Islamic Studies. The length of time needed to complete the Ph.D. in the    Department depends on financial considerations, the extent of the  student's   earlier preparation, and similar factors. Students without  the M.A. degree are urged to complete the   M.A. requirements in two  years and are urged to   complete the Ph.D. degree requirements in an  additional five years. Degree requirements   should be completed  according to the University's "normative time" standards.
                              Students completing the M.A. degree requirements in this  Department need to pass   a Permission to Proceed exam after completing  the M.A. requirements. Applicants without the M.A. degree should have fulfilled the equivalent of the Departmental   requirements for the B.A. degree. Minor deficiencies in preparation would   need to be repaired in the student's first year of graduate work.                             Satisfying Requirements After being admitted to the Graduate Program:Students without the M.A. Degree: 
                            Once the student has been admitted in the Program, the M.A.  degree requirements should be satisfied according to Plan II. In addition   to the requirements outlined, the student must pass a  reading examination in   French or German. (If it is clearly necessary  to the student's field of study,   another modern language may be  substituted on approval of the graduate adviser   and the student's  advisory committee).Plan II requirements for students in language   programs: (1) at least 24 units of course work, at least 12 of which   must be in  200-series courses in the major and (possibly overlapping) three    semesters of work in a Near Eastern language other than the student's  major   language; (2) two scholarly papers written independently or in  connection with   course work; (3) written M.A. examinations to test (a)  working knowledge of the   pertinent languages, (b) general knowledge  of the history and civilizations of   the area of emphasis, and (c)  knowledge of and familiarity with other subjects   suggested by the  student's degree   committee.
                            Plan II requirements for   students in archaeology and art history programs with a Mesopotamian   emphasis: (1) at least 24 units of course work, at least 12 of which   must be in  200-series courses. Three semesters must be drawn from NES C220 and NES  223; (2) two scholarly papers written independently or in connection    with course work; (3) written M.A. examinations covering one major and  two minor   fields. 
                            Students with the M.A. Degree:
  Except for the Graduate Division's academic  residence   requirement, there are no specific unit requirements   for  the Ph.D. in this Department. Students select courses that will prepare  them   to meet the requirements for admission to candidacy. It is  expected that   students will take seminars in at least two areas in the  Department before   taking preliminary examinations. Admission to candidacy for the Ph.D. degree depends on   successful completion of the following requirements: 
  (1) Ph.D. coursework;   (2) reading examinations in  French and German (proficiency in another language   to the student's  field of emphasis may be substituted for either French or   German on  approval of the graduate adviser and the student's advisory    committee); (3) proficiency in one or two Near Eastern languages as  required for   the student's field of study. (For language majors,  proficiency will be tested   by a comprehensive exam, which must be  taken and passed no later than the   semester prior to the student's  written preliminary examination, and the written   preliminary  examination, which will cover at least two Near Eastern languages.   For  Egyptian Archaeology and Art History majors, proficiency will be tested    through the written preliminary examinations, which will include an  examination   in Egyptian and/or Coptic. Archaeology/art history  students (except those in   Egyptian archaeology) who have not completed  a minimum of two years course work   in an ancient or modern Near  Eastern language must pass a proficiency   examination in an ancient or  modern Near Eastern Language before taking the   preliminary  examinations.); (4) field work (for art history and archaeology    majors); (5) written preliminary examinations and the oral qualifying    examination; (6) a prospectus of the dissertation approved by the  student's   proposed Ph.D. dissertation committee. After admission to candidacy, the student must fulfill the   requirements for the dissertation as outlined in the Graduate Division's Guidelines.
                                  						  
								    All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.The requested URL /graduation01.html was not found on this server.Additionally, a 404 Not Found
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.The requested URL /graduation02.html was not found on this server.Additionally, a 404 Not Found
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.Graduate programs leading to the M. A. and Ph.D. degrees are offered in Arabic, Hebrew, and Persian languages and literatures, Near Eastern Archaeology, Art History, Cuneiform, Hebrew Bible, Biblical and Judaic Studies, Old Iranian Studies, Egyptology, and Islamic Studies.  More about Graduate Programs...
							
                                
    
                                                                    
								 
						      All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.*NES 10 (Introduction to the Near East) is required for all majors in the Department and must be taken for a letter grade.           
          Near Eastern Studies Minor Programs 
            For students who are majoring in other subjects, but who have a strong interest in one of the modern languages or ancient history of the Near East, the Department offers programs leading to a minor in the following areas:  
  Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Civilizations 
  Arabic 
  Hebrew 
  Persian 
  Turkish
            
          Please review L&S Guidelines for Minors.  The L&S Completion of a Minor Form must be submitted for approval to the Undergraduate Faculty Adviser one semester before graduation. If you are interested in pursuing a Near Eastern Studies minor program, please meet with the Undergraduate Assistant. Declaring the Major Major Requirements General GuidelinesMajor Declaration Process 
            Students are recommended to declare a major as soon as they are eligible. For a major in Near Eastern Languages and Literatures, students are advised to begin the study of this major in their freshmen year to allow for sufficient time to complete the major requirements. Please see the below steps to declare a major: 
            1. Review Major Course Requirements for each of the Near Eastern Studies majors as listed above in the major programs or in the Berkeley Academic Guide. 
            2. Meet with the Undergraduate Assistant to discuss the Near Eastern Studies major requirements and to begin the application process to declare the major.  
            3. Submit an L&S Major Declaration Form and a program plan for approval to the appropriate Undergraduate Faculty Adviser. Double Major Application     Other L&S Forms & Petitions
            Please visit the College of Letters & Science to obtain additional forms and petitions. With the consent of the student’s major faculty adviser, a student in any of the Near Eastern Studies majors, who holds an overall GPA of 3.3 or higher in all coursework taken at the University, and a GPA of 3.51 or higher in courses completed in the major, may apply for admission to the honors program. The honors program provides students with an opportunity to research and write a thesis in the area of their major specialization. Successful completion of a thesis rewards a student to graduate with a distinction of honors in the major. 
            Students must maintain the required GPA in the major in order to remain eligible for the honors program. Students should begin the Honors Application process the semester before their senior year and receive the approval of two faculty members to serve on their Thesis Committee. The Thesis Committee should consist of a Near Eastern Studies faculty member to serve as the Thesis Supervisor and a second member of the NES Faculty who will agree to read and evaluate the thesis. 
            Timeline for the NES Honors application process:Resources for UndergraduatesGetting Ready for Graduate School
            Step by Step: is an undergraduate resource group to enrich the student’s academic experience and to prepare students for graduate school. Apprenticeship at the Hearst Museum 
            The Undergraduate Research Apprentice Program (URAP) provides an opportunity for Berkeley undergraduates to work with faculty members on innovative research projects. Students meet regularly with faculty for research mentoring and may earn 1 unit of academic credit for each 3 hours of research work (limited to 4 units per term). The program is designed to stimulate awareness of advanced research and interest in graduate study. Students are not paid for their participation. For more information on the apprenticeship opportunities, please contact the Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology.Berkeley Archeological Research Facility
            Every semester, the Archeological Research Facility hosts a set of archeological lectures and events which are open to the public. Brown Bag Talks & Lectures
            The Near Eastern Studies department holds monthly brown bag talks, which feature faculty, graduate students, and visiting scholars, to discuss their research work in the area of Near Eastern Studies. Please visit the events page on the NES website for more information. Center for Middle Eastern Studies 
            The Center for Middle Eastern Studies (CMES) promotes the interdisciplinary study of the Middle East at the University of California, Berkeley, and beyond, raising public awareness of the region’s diverse peoples and cultures and their connection to wider global contexts. Please visit the CMES website for list of lectures and events each semester.  Office of Undergraduate Research and Scholarships 
            The Office of Undergraduate Research and Scholarships (OURS) is UC Berkeley’s hub for undergraduate research and prestigious scholarships. Study Aboard 
            Berkeley Study Abroad offers opportunity for students to earn university course credit while studying abroad. Courses can be taken in the areas of language, cultural, and historical studies and may apply towards completing major requirements.  Scholarships
            Please find below a list of scholarship opportunities to fund study abroad and national academic programs. A full list of scholarships can be found here.Haas Scholars Program 
            Each year the Haas Scholars Program selects twenty highly qualified, academically talented undergraduates who have financial need to form a supportive intellectual community during their final year at UC-Berkeley. Haas Scholars receive close mentoring from members of the UC-Berkeley faculty, and attend seminars and workshops to assist them in the research and writing process, and to provide them an opportunity to present their work at a professional conference. Students may receive up to $12,600 each in financial support.Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) Awards 
            FLAS awards enable students who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents to acquire a high level of competence in one or more foreign languages. Fellowships (up to $15,000) for the full academic year or summer programs are awarded to students studying a modern foreign language in the US or abroad, with priority given to students in the humanities, social sciences, and professional fields.Undergraduate Merit Scholarship 
            The Institute of International Studies offers scholarships of up to $2,000 each to support undergraduate research in any area of international studies. Scholarship recipients may be eligible for additional prizes upon presentation of their research work.Stevens Scholar Program 
            The Stevens Scholar Program supports research and travel by undergraduate students who demonstrate a high level of distinction in Middle Eastern Studies. Scholarships up to $5,000 are available to assist students with travel expenses and to support student’s research interest on Middle East related topics or overseas study of Middle Eastern languages.Sultan Program in Arab Studies 
            Scholarships up to $1,200 are available to undergraduates working on projects and theses related to Arab Studies. Scholarships may be used to support research or conference travel, overseas or domestic summer Arabic language study, and/or internships.           
                    
                                                                    
                                  						  
								    All content copyright © UC Regents unless otherwise noted.				    Content: Members of the Department of Near Eastern Studies.
				    Redesigned in 2015 by Shorena Kurtsikidze.
			      Template base: © http://pixelarity.com/.