Elementary Chinese. A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one-half hour tutorial meeting every week. Requirements: weekly quizzes and take-home exercises, daily participation in class, attendance in class, language lab and tutorial, and in-class examination during last week of classes.Please note: Chinese 1A is not open to native speakers of MandarinElementary Chinese for Mandarin Speakers. An elementary-level course designed for those who speak Mandarin but who do not read or write in Chinese. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets three times a week, one hour a day, and two weekly language lab hours are required. Requirements: weekly quizzes, oral quizzes, in-class examination during last week classes.Readings in pre-Han and early Han-dynasty texts, introducing the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage. Requirements: Class participation, including careful preparation of all assigned readings and exercises, in-class quizzes, midterm, and final examination. Prerequisites: Some training in vernacular Chinese, Japanese or Korean.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. Chinese 7A covers early and pre-modern Chinese up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century). Prerequisites: None.Intermediate Chinese. This course is designed to develop the student’s reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in (Mandarin) Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Five one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B, or consent of instructor.Intermediate Chinese for Mandarin Speakers. Students who have completed Chinese 1AX/1BX may enroll in Chinese 10AX, an intermediate level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin, simplified and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Prerequisites: Chinese 1BX or consent of instructor.This course will examine war, empire, and memory through an eclectic group of literary, graphic, and cinematic texts from China, Japan, Europe, and the US. We will begin by examining crucial issues of imperial power, violence, and historical representation through the lens of the Han dynasty historian Sima Qian’s classic accounts of armed conflict and ‘terrorism’ in the Warring States period. With these earlier examples in mind, we will turn our focus to two crucial conflicts in modern history — the Boxer Uprising of 1899-1900, and the Sino-Japanese War of 1937-1945 — and their diverse representations in a number of different times, places, and media.Through these texts, we will explore the question of how imperial violence becomes 'history' and what 'history' can tell us about imperial violence. What exactly is an empire? How is war distinct from other sorts of violence? What are the politics of writing about war and violence? How and why do different texts and different media 'remember' the same events in profoundly different ways? What exactly do questions of narrative structure or literary/cinematic style have to tell us about the often explosive and sometimes deeply disturbing ethical implications of these stories?The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings and conversation include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 10AX/10BX may enroll in Chinese 100AX, an advanced level course for Mandarin speakers who have intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The readings and conversation materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Prerequisites: Chinese 10BX; consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; consent of instructor.Reading of well-known examples of pre-Han and early Han historical narrative and philosophical argument. This semester, the course will focus on tales of the supernatural in the Mozi and the Zuo zhuan. Prerequisites: Chinese 2A and 2B or a comparable college-level introduction to Classical Chinese. Courses in literary Chinese at the primary or secondary school level are not considered adequate preparation. Consent of instructor.An introduction to early Chinese drama through readings in primary and secondary sources in Chinese and English. The course will cover the period from 1100-1450 and will cover three major genres: zaju, zhugong diao, and xiwen. Prerequisites: One writing-emphasis course in any humanities department. Chinese 2B or equivalent.The class will read a selection of Buddhist texts representing material translated from the Sanskrit. The content of the passages will cover both sutra and commentary types as well as Chinese treatises, making use of the full range of research and reference works available for Buddhist vocabulary and canonic collections. Prerequisites: One year of classical Chinese; consent of instructor.This course explores Chinese fiction and prose of recent decades through two broad and intertwined concerns: the struggles of memory and forgetting, and the politics of representing gender, geographical, and cultural identities. These concerns have driven many of the thematic and formal experiments through which writers have engaged with the cultural dislocations of modernity, as experienced through colonialism and capitalism, revolution and globalization. We will examine elite and popular, realist and avant-garde fiction from mainland China and Taiwan.Research Methodologies.This course engages in a reading of the late-sixteenth century novel Jin Ping Mei, taking it as a point of departure in investigating the literary and material culture of the late-sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. The course forms an introduction to not only the study of late-imperial fiction and fiction commentary but to the study of material culture as well. Questions to be considered include: What can this novel tell us about the rise of the mercantile stratum and the disaggregation of the literati elite during this period? How does the meticulous attention to the furniture and objects of daily use foster the novel’s social voyeurism? How does the representation of material culture in the novel contribute to the emerging seventeenth-century discourse on fictionality? Similarly, how might the novel’s incorporation of heterogeneous source materials point to its meta-fictional concerns? Finally, how has late-imperial commentary influenced the readings of contemporary critics? Prerequisites: Reading knowledge of classical and modern Chinese.The epochal impact of evolutionary thought on modern Chinese cultural and literary history is widely acknowledged, but the nature and repercussions of that impact seldom thoroughly questioned or explored. In this seminar, we will ask how and why developmental thinking, biological discourse, and biocentric modes of seeing culture (as embodied by the work of Charles Darwin, Herbert Spencer, and T.H. Huxley, as well as figures such as Friedrich Nietzsche and Sigmund Freud) underwrote the epistemic transformations of early 20th century China. What do various appropriations of biocentric thinking by figures such as Yan Fu, Lu Xun, Zhou Zuoren and others tell us about the construction of modern Chinese nationalism? What are the implications of this mode of writing for Republican discourses on childhood, femininity, sexuality, and cultural reproduction? What are some of the (sometimes covert or unlikely) ways in which these ideas come to shape modern Chinese narrative structures and delimit literary/historiographical horizons? Finally, how and why is the May 4th reconstitution of a modern Chinese subject dogged by the figure of the animal?We will attempt to consider these and other questions through an examination of late Qing translations of evolutionary theory, and the engagement of May 4th writers with the modes of thinking about self, culture, and history that this evolutionary discourse enabled. We will also read a wide variety of both canonical and non-canonical modern Chinese literary, critical, and (pseudo)scientific writings, alongside selected philosophical and theoretical texts.Open to graduate students in Chinese, Japanese, History, Comparative Literature, History of Art, Linguistics, Anthropology, and related fields. Topics of discussion include literary theory, cultural analysis, the state of the field, and methods of textual and historical research. This course introduces theoretical approaches to East Asian studies with an emphasis on China and Japan. The course is also intended as a preliminary introduction to the state of the field in East Asian studies. This course is required of first-year graduate students in EALC. Requirements: Graduate standing or consent of instructor.Elementary Japanese. Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read and write short, simple compositions in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.This course designed to be taken concurrently with Japan 1A to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.The field of Japanese literature is extraordinarily rich; it covers over twelve centuries of texts, including the thousand-page classic, The Tale of Genji, often described as the world’s oldest novel, and the seventeen-syllable haiku, one of the shortest poetic forms and still one of the most popular. Like all her eleventh-century aristocratic contemporaries, the author of Genji believed in spirit possession, dream prophecy, and reincarnation. And yet her depiction of the subtle workings of male competition and female jealousy is as psychologically subtle and perceptive as any passage in Proust, to whom she is often compared. J7A will begin with a look at Japan's early myth-history, Kojiki, and first extant poetry anthology, Man'yôshû, which show the transition from preliterate, communal society to a highly developed courtly culture. Examples of the rich Japanese female diary tradition follow, and then two weeks on Genji, the high-point of Heian prose. The second half of the course, examines medieval literature, including religious and aesthetic essays by cultured monks and violent yet intensely moving war stories, sung by priests to the accompaniment of lutes. We will conclude by reading the poetry and travel literature of Bashô, often called Japan's last medieval poet.Intermediate Japanese. In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; consent of instructor.This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in Japan 10A to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.Natsume Sôseki (1867-1916) is one of the central and most compelling writers in the canon of modern Japanese literature. Yet the full range and critical complexity of his work is frequently overlooked in its canonical reception. In this course, we will embark on a fresh reading of some of Sôseki's important writings, from early works like I am a Cat (Wagahai wa neko de aru) and Botchan to some of his important later works (Kokoro, and then, Grass on the Wayside, Ten Nights' Dream, Mon [The Gate], The Miner, Three-Cornered World, Light and Darkness) and his critical and theoretical essays about literature. We will consider the ways his work has been received, and some aspects of it that have been neglected. Central to our work will be a comparative literary perspective, engaging questions of modernity and temporality, identity and subjectivity, and reflections on the act of artistic creation and the role of the artist. Prerequisites: None. All readings will be available in translation. Some knowledge of Japanese will be useful but is not required.This course will examine responses to the events of World War II. Our focus will be on Japan, but we will make frequent comparisons to the Jewish case. We will pay close attention to how catastrophic events are mourned and memorialized through narratives. After being grounded in the historical context, we will analyze eyewitness accounts of the events, memoirs, fiction, feature films and filmed testimonies, museum exhibits and historical debates. We will discuss questions such as, the nature of mourning and the process of mourning through art and culture; the memorialization of tragedy; the ethics of the representation of tragedy, revenge and survivor guilt. Throughout, we will be asking about the possibilities, and the difficulties, of comparing responses by different cultures to different types of atrocity. This will require accounting for differences in religious belief, notions of psychology, and literary and artistic form. Larger questions we will ask include, Is the process of mourning universal? Are the responses to atrocity? Is comparing the Japanese and Jewish cases ethically suspect?Advanced Japanese. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more (450 hours or more) at college level. It aims to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills through activities such as: reading newspaper articles, essays, poems (e.g.haiku), short stories, etc. participating in group discussions on issues related to the materials read, in class and on-line writing short essays, etc. on topics related to the reading materials, giving a short oral presentation. In this course, students will practice various techniques to read Japanese newspaper articles efficiently. Furthermore, they will become familiar with and learn to appreciate various kinds of Japanese writing, as well as learning more advanced Japanese grammar and increasing their vocabulary. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese.This course is an introduction to Classical Japanese, with emphasis on the Heian and medieval periods. Class will be devoted primarily to Classical Japanese grammar and to reading and discussion of four literary works: Hojoki, Heike monogatari, Tsurezuregusa, and Taketori monogatari. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools.An examination of the modern Japanese short story with a focus on the narrative intertwining of personal experience, emotional affects, on the one hand, and of the impersonal structures of allusion and citation, on the other. Note: Authors to be announced. Possibilities include works by Shiga Naoya (1883-1971), Naka Kansuke (1885-1965), Akutagawa Ryûnosuke (1892-1927), Satô Haruo (1892-1964), Hori Tatsuo (1904-1953), and Kajii Motojirô (1901-1932). Through close readings of specific works, we will explore how writers experimented with the resources of literary language during the formative years of Taishô Japan. An emphasis of the course will be the comprehension of literary works read in the original. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or consent of instructor.This course will deal with the issues of the structure of Japanese and how they have been treated by the field of linguistics. We will investigate phonetics and phonology, writing systems, lexicon, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, speech varieties (politeness, gender, dialects), topic management, historical changes, genetic origins, etc. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese and to have taken an introductory linguistics course.This course introduces students to the four major premodern Japanese theatrical genres, as well as plays of two famous post-war writers. In addition to introducing the actual plays, other issues that we will examine include intertextuality, the nature of “translation,” characteristics of premodern dramatic/performance genres, the power relationship between practitioners and their audience, and the relationship between modern and premodern works. Prerequisites: None, all works will be read in English translation.Students will read and discuss passages in the original language from four major memoirs (nikki) written by women of the Heian and later periods (beginning with Kagero nikki and ending with Towazugatari), with emphasis on thematic and expressive differences among them.Prerequisites: J140 or equivalent (3rd or 4th-year level reading skills in modern Japanese; basic to intermediate reading skills in classical Japanese).Readings and critical evaluation of selected texts in prewar (1868-1940) Japanese fiction, drama, or poetry.Elementary Korean. Five classroom hours per week and one hour of language laboratory are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean.Prerequisites: No background or very minimal background in Korean language; Consent of instructor.This course provides an overview of Korean literature and cultural history, from the seventh century to the late nineteenth century. We will examine the development of oral tradition from the ritual songs recorded in Remnants of Three Kingdoms to p'ansori in late Chosôn period; the major vernacular verse forms such as sijo and kasa; autobiographical prose; and vernacular as well as classical narratives, talks, and parables. We will focus on the interplay of literary texts and performance tradition by exploring such topics as: various aspects of literati culture of Koryô and Chosôn; literary articulations of gender relations; and representations of humor and material culture. We will also consider the suppleness of traditional vernacular culture forms as they have been rearticulated throughout history. Prerequisites: None.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; consent of instructor.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.A historical survey of the Buddhist tradition, in all of its incredible religious and cultural diversity. The first half of the course focuses on the evolution of Buddhist doctrines, practices, and institutions in India, from the origins of the religion as a group of world-renouncing ascetics through the development of large state-supported monastic communities and the rise of the movements known as Mahayana and Tantra. The second half of the course treats major Buddhist movements in other parts of the world: the Theravada Buddhism of Southeast Asia; the Tantric Buddhism of Tibet; and the various schools of East Asian Buddhism, such as Tientai, Pure Land, and Chan (Zen). It also deals with the issues of Buddhism in the modern world and the contemporary spread of various branches of the tradition from Asia to the West. Prerequisites: None.This course is an introduction to the history, doctrine, and culture of the various forms of Buddhism found in Tibet. We will begin with the earliest transmissions of Buddhism to Tibet from India and China. We will then trace the evolution of the various schools of Tibetan Buddhism, starting with the so-called Old School (rNying-ma-pa) and concluding with the dominant Gelugpa School (dGe-lugs-pa) under the Dalai Lama. We will pay particular attention to Tibetan Buddhist ritual in general, and Tantric ritual in particular, with its complex techniques of "generating the deity" in visualization. The course will also serve as an introduction to the forms of Tibetan art closely associated with Tibetan Buddhist doctrine and practice. Prerequisites: None.This graduate seminar serves as an introduction to a broad range of Japanese Buddhist literature belonging to different historical periods and genres, including (1) liturgical texts; (2) monastic records, rules, and ritual manuals; (3) doctrinal treatises; (4) biographies of monks; and (5) histories of Buddhism in Japan. The seminar is designed to be of interest to a range of graduate students working on premodern Japanese culture (literature, philosophy, intellectual history, religion, art, etc.). Students are required to do all the readings in the original languages, which are classical Chinese (kanbun) and classical Japanese. The seminar will also serve as a "tools and methods" course, covering basic reference works for the study of Japanese Buddhism as well as secondary scholarship in Japanese. The content of the course will be adjusted from semester to semester to accommodate the needs and interests of the students. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one-half hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is not open to native speakers of any Chinese dialectAn elementary-level course designed for those who speak Mandarin but who do not read or write in Chinese. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.A beginning Mandarin Chinese class designed for students who already have elementary comprehension and speaking skills in a Chinese dialect other than Mandarin Chinese and minimal exposure to reading and/or writing in Chinese. The class uses Pinyin and traditional characters. Four hours in class, one-half hour discussion session, and at least two hours in the language laboratory every week. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in (Mandarin) Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Five one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 1AX/1BX may enroll in Chinese 10AX, an intermediate level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin, simplified and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and one one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1BX; or consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 10AX/10BX may enroll in Chinese 100AX, an advanced level course for Mandarin speakers who have intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The readings and conversation materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. Class meets 3 days a week for one hour per day. Prerequisites: Chinese 10BX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course consists of lectures that provide a general overview of traditional Chinese culture from the early Zhou dynasty through the Tang (the 1st millennium BCE through the 9th century of this era). Special emphasis is given to the origins and development of philosophy, art, religion, prose, and poetry. The subjects to be covered include: the Chinese language and writing system, the classical canon, Confucianism and its opponents, historiography, the traditions and techniques of Taoism, hero cults and ancestor worship, burial practice, ghost stories, and the introduction of Buddhism and its role in early Chinese society. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.Reading of well-known examples of pre-Han and early Han historical narrative and philosophical argument. This semester, the course will focus on tales of the supernatural in the Mozi and the Zuo zhuan. Prerequisites: Chinese 2A and 2B or a comparable college-level introduction to Classical Chinese. Courses in literary Chinese at the primary or secondary school level are not considered adequate preparation. Consent of instructor is required.This course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Chinese. We will read samples from a variety of genres, including early Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, indigenous Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, and sectarian works, including Chan gongan (Zen koans). The course will also serve as an introduction to resource materials used in the study of Chinese Buddhist texts, and students will be expected to make use of a variety of reference tools in preparation for class. Readings in Chinese will be supplemented by a range of secondary readings in English on Mahayana doctrine and Chinese Buddhist history. PrerequisitesThis course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Chinese, and at least one semester of Classical Chinese is prerequisite for enrollment. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful but not required.This course provides an introduction to the textual culture of the late Ming and Qing periods with readings of excerpts from novels and short fiction. Close attention to historical and literary historical context; skills in translation and literary analysis will also be developed. Topics for discussion include the seventeenth-century fascination with markets, money and exchange; the examination system and the dissolution of a traditionally constituted elite; the discourse on connoisseurship and collecting; gender and the Confucian bonds of human relation; the representation of homoeroticism. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.What is sonic culture? How can we understand and analyze the aesthetics and politics of sound - both musical and otherwise - in Chinese cultures? Through auditory and textual explorations of both musical discourse and discourses on music, this course will trace the ways in which music has been produced, understood, and debated across a broad swath of Chinese history. How has sound served as an instrument of social power, political protest, literary expression, philosophical speculation, commercial exploitation, pleasure and desire? What kinds of stakes are involved in the production, consumption, and interpretation of both noise and organized sound? Does sonic culture have a history, and if so, how can we use literary texts as a means of listening to the music and the auditory landscapes of cultures predating the age of sound recording? What, finally, is the relation between auditory and literary culture.We will attempt to answer this set of questions with reference to both premodern and modern Chinese sonic and literary cultures. We will begin by familiarizing ourselves with recent methodologies for the study of sonic culture, and then continue on to a consideration of the conceptualization of both naturally occurring sound and music in a diverse set of early and medieval Chinese texts. In the second half of the course, we turn toward an exploration of Chinese musical modernity within the larger context of global histories of colonialism, capitalism, and the dissemination of technologies for the recording and reproduction of sound in the 20th century. Topics to be covered will include Confucian and Daoist music theory, poetry and music, the introduction of Western music into China in the 19th and 20th centuries, its impact on traditional musics, the transformation of sonic culture by the gramophone and the cinema, the emergence of a variety of urban popular musics, the revolutionary role of mass-mediated sound in the articulation of political movements such as the Cultural Revolution, and the soundscapes of recent Chinese films from Taiwan, Hong Kong, and the PRC. The course will conclude with a set of student presentations on aspects of contemporary Chinese sonic culture. Prerequisites: Chinese 7A or B, and/or previous college-level coursework in either literature or music. This course will examine how Chinese poetic writing reflects, and occasionally challenges, notions of subjectivity implied in philosophical and theoretical writings. Close reading of poems (and some prose essays) drawn primarily from the Six Dynasties and the Tang will reveal how visual and aural imagery, genre, allusion, role-playing, and linguistic structures shape and reflect the character of the lyric “I”. Related topics of study will include: the connection between literary expressions of subjectivity and the formation of poetic personae; implications of our understanding of poetic subjectivity for the practice of translation; and the particular role of the senses and space in the poetic expression of this period. Prerequisites: Translations and supplementary readings in English will be provided; reading ability in Chinese recommended but not required. Advanced undergraduates with prior upper-division coursework in Chinese literature may also enroll with the permission of the instructor.This seminar will provide a forum for intensive reading and analysis of Cao Xueqin's 18th century masterwork of Chinese fiction, The Story of the Stone. We will read and discuss the entire text, peruse some of the most important Qing commentaries, as well as familiarize ourselves with modern critical approaches to its study. Prerequisites: Excellent reading knowledge of modern and vernacular Chinese. This is a graduate seminar. Advanced undergraduates with prior upper-division coursework in Chinese literature may also enroll with the permission of the instructor.What happens when images - and ideas about images - travel from one culture to another, or from the past to the present? What are images, and what do images do? What are the differences between visual and verbal images, and why do these differences matter? What are the relations between images and the peoples, places, cultures, histories, and material realities they represent? What are the relations between the spaces imagined and created through verbal and visual images and the spaces that images occupy? Such questions have often been fraught with anxieties over geocultural difference and identity, both in China and in the West.This seminar explores the stakes involved in thinking about verbal and visual images, through a case study of the radical transformation of visual and literary culture in early twentieth-century China. We will examine the changing relationships among image, word, place, and identity in China in the context of the colonialist reconfiguration of global space and the expansion of image technologies such as photography and illustrated magazines. Topics for discussion include: the cultural meanings of the relations between words and images; debates over linear perspective and the reconfiguration of Chinese literary and pictorial spaces (including classical poetry and painting and popular illustrated magazines); how premodern literature was rethought in a modern culture of images; form as critique and as cultural essentialism; the circulation and migration of images; empathy, fear, and other affective relationships to images; design, abstraction, and everyday life; images, materiality, and the picturing of the invisible; and the transformation of photography and modernism in the image of China. Prerequisites: Open to graduate students from across the humanities and social sciences with instructor's permission.Much twentieth-century experimental fiction is written out of a deep unease over the relationships of the past to the present in the modern and increasingly globalized world. This unease has been expressed through an obsession with history and its transmission; with the entanglements of memory and desire; with architecture, geography, and texts as sites of the past; and with the relations among narrative, fiction, and history. How is history written? Or, how does history as a form of writing shape our understandings of what constitutes the past and its significance to the present? In order to engage with these questions, numerous writers have experimented with the fantastic - not as an escape from history, but in order to make representable historical contradictions concealed by more conventional realist narrative.This course will consider how the close intertwining of history and the strange in early Chinese writing was critically reappropriated in early 20th-century East Asian fiction; how imaginary Chinas have informed experiments with writing the past in Europe and Latin America; and how such experiments have provided contemporary Chinese writers with new lenses through which to explore their own histories. Through this focus we will also create a global and historical context for understanding contemporary Chinese fiction. Readings include Julian Barnes, the Zuo Zhuan, Sima Qian, Chinese histories of the strange (zhiguai, chuanqi, Pu Songling), Shi Zhecun, Tanizaki, Virginia Woolf, Victor Segalen, Kafka, Borges, Italo Calvino, Wang Zengqi, Yu Hua, Ge Fei, Garcia Marquez, and Han Shaogong. All readings will be in English. Prerequisites: None.Open to graduate students in Chinese, Japanese, History, Comparative Literature, History of Art, Linguistics, Anthropology, and related fields. Topics of discussion include literary theory, cultural analysis, the state of the field, and methods of textual and historical research. This course introduces theoretical approaches to East Asian studies with an emphasis on China and Japan. The course is also intended as a preliminary introduction to the state of the field in East Asian studies. This course is required of first-year graduate students in EALC. Prerquisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1A to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more (450 hours or more) at college level. It aims to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills through activities such as: reading newspaper articles, essays, poems (e.g.haiku), short stories, etc. participating in group discussions on issues related to the materials read, in class and on-line writing short essays, etc. on topics related to the reading materials, giving a short oral presentation. In this course, students will practice various techniques to read Japanese newspaper articles efficiently. Furthermore, they will become familiar with and learn to appreciate various kinds of Japanese writing, as well as learning more advanced Japanese grammar and increasing their vocabulary. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese. After discussing the basics of classical grammar, we read all of Hôjôki (An account of my hut) and parts of Heike monogatari (The tale of the Heike). The emphasis is on translation into English, grammatical explication, and cultural and literary milieu. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar and literary content, and translate into English. Students are encouraged to read the provided footnotes for practice in modern Japanese and basic background information as well as translations into modern Japanese, English, or other languages. But a line-by-line translation into English by the student is also essential for adequate class preparation. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools.Together with the great classics The Tale of Genji and The Pillow Book, court women in Japan produced some of most exciting poetic memoirs in the Japanese literary corpus. Whereas male courtiers were generally required by convention to compose formulaic and unemotional diaries in Chinese, court women were free to write in their native language about their deepest concerns. The course will read the poetic memoirs of Lady Kagerô, Lady Murasaki, and Lady Nijô in their entirety in English translation then focus on select passages in classical Japanese dealing with adoption, childbirth, and seduction. Prerequisites: Japanese 120 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course is an introduction to Japanese modernism through the reading and discussion of representative short stories, poetry and criticism of the Taishô and early Shôwa periods. We will explore the historical and cultural roots of many of the key themes in works by Akutagawa Ryûnosuke, Hagiwara Sakutarô, Kajii Motojirô, Hayashi Fumiko, Kobayashi Hideo, and others. We will examine the aesthetic bases of their writing and confront the challenge posed by their use of poetic language. The question of literary form and the relationship between poetry and prose in the works will receive special attention. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100A or equivalent, may be taken concurrently.This course provides an overview of the considerations that the translator must take into account when approaching a text. Special attention is paid to the structural differences between Japanese and English, cross-cultural differences in stylistics, writing with clarity, reference work, etc. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Japanese. By means of translating selected texts into English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translation problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. In consultation with the instructor, each student chooses an appropriate text to be translated during the course of the semester. Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent.The seminar will cover one or more noh plays each week with attention focused on the diverse nature of the genre. Along with some of the classic aesthetic masterpieces – in particular the “dream vision plays” (mugen nô) attributed to Zeami and Zenchiku – the seminar will study plays by later authors, works of unknown attribution and plays that are not part of the standard contemporary performance tradition (bangai nô). Prerequisites: One year of classical Japanese; or consent of instructor.Readings and critical evaluation of selected texts in prewar (1868-1940) Japanese fiction, drama, or poetry. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Three classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.This course provides an overview of Korean literature and cultural history, from the seventh century to the late nineteenth century. We will examine the development of oral tradition from the ritual songs recorded in Remnants of Three Kingdoms to p’ansori in late Chosôn period; the major vernacular verse forms such as sijo and kasa; autobiographical prose; and vernacular as well as classical narratives, tales, and parables. We will focus on the interplay of literary texts and performance tradition by exploring such topics as: various aspects of literati culture of Koryô and Chosôn; literary articulations of gender relations; and representations of humor and material culture. We will also consider the suppleness of traditional vernacular culture forms as they have been rearticulated throughout history. Prerequisites: None.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.Many recent studies on the intellectual movement of early modern Korea have highlighted a pivotal role played by newspapers in the development of modern national consciousness. The significance of the early twentieth century journals and magazines in the formation of modern Korean literature is also generally recognized. While these early modern media have been regarded as indispensable scholarly sources in the fields of Korean literary and cultural studies, little attention has been paid to the textual forms and ideological underpinnings that enabled these publications to come into existence, to develop into the most crucial public forum, and to serve an instrumental role in the emergence of the modern reading subject during the first quarter of the twentieth century in Korea. Focusing on the intersection of literature and print culture, this seminar examines the various permutations of modern newspapers and journals in Korea from the late nineteenth century to the 1930s. We will be engaged in a close examination of the literary, sociological, and pictorial texts from select periodicals to explore topics such as: the relation between nationalism and print culture; the formal concerns that appeared at the advent of serialization of literary texts; the role of the pictorial press (illustrations, photographs, and advertising leaflets); and a range of issues on the formation of the modern reading subject. We will also consider the relevant scholarship in the areas of history of books, history of reading, cultural studies, and literary criticism. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and its rich literature. Prerequisites: None.A historical survey of the Buddhist tradition, in all of its incredible religious and cultural diversity. The first half of the course focuses on the evolution of Buddhist doctrines, practices, and institutions in India, from the origins of the religion as a group of world-renouncing ascetics through the development of large state-supported monastic communities and the rise of the movements known as Mahayana and Tantra. The second half of the course treats major Buddhist movements in other parts of the world: the Theravada Buddhism of Southeast Asia; the Tantric Buddhism of Tibet; and the various schools of East Asian Buddhism, such as Tientai, Pure Land, and Chan (Zen). It also deals with the issues of Buddhism in the modern world and the contemporary spread of various branches of the tradition from Asia to the West. Prerequisites: None.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one-half hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is not open to native speakers of any Chinese dialectAn elementary-level course designed for those who speak Mandarin but who do not read or write in Chinese. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.A beginning Mandarin Chinese class designed for students who already have elementary comprehension and speaking skills in a Chinese dialect other than Mandarin Chinese and minimal exposure to reading and/or writing in Chinese. The class uses Pinyin and traditional characters. Four hours in class, one-half hour discussion session, and at least two hours in the language laboratory every week. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in (Mandarin) Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Five one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 1AX/1BX may enroll in Chinese 10AX, an intermediate level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin, simplified and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and one one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1BX; or consent of instructor.This seminar will meet for discussion every Monday morning from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. in 102A Durant. The lectures will take place every Friday morning from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at an auditorium in the California State Building adjacent to the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco's Civic Center Plaza, which is easily accessible by BART. During the fall semester 2005, the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco, with the help of Cal's Institute of East Asian Studies and various campus departments and centers, will host a series of extremely distinguished lecturers who will speak on topics related to the history of Chinese art and literature from earliest times through the Tang dynasty (618-906). Lecturers will include highly noted experts from Princeton, Harvard, the University of Chicago, U.C. Berkeley, the Ecole française d'extrême-orient, and other centers of Chinese studies. The lectures will be introductory in nature and cover such topics as early Chinese ceramics, ceremonial bronze vessels, Daoism, Buddhism, ancient burial practices, the masterpieces of Chinese literature, and other topics important to a basic understanding of traditional Chinese civilization. Students are expected to attend the lectures as well as to participate in a one-hour discussion seminar with Professor Jeffrey Riegel, who is the organizer of the series, to discuss with him the contents of each lecture. There are no required readings for the seminar, but a list of suggested readings will be provided. Enrollment is limited to fifteen students.Please note: Chinese 24 is open only to Freshman The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings and conversation include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. Class meets 5 days a week for one hour per day; students spend 2 hours per week in the language or computer lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 10AX/10BX may enroll in Chinese 100AX, an advanced level course for Mandarin speakers who have intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The readings and conversation materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. Class meets 3 days a week for one hour per day. Prerequisites: Chinese 10BX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.Readings in pre-Han, Han-Dynasty, Six Dynasties and Tang-Dynasty texts. This course introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage. At the same time, attention is paid to introducing the various genres of prose and poetry and discussing their distinguishing features. This course is also meant to provide some introductory background on the formation of the “Confucian Classics” and the texts of the “Taoist Canon.” Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.The primary focus of this course will be the types of narrative fiction in classical Chinese usually referred to as zhiguai (“recounting anomalies”) and chuanqi (“transmitting the strange/marvelous”). While modern literary historians have often treated these genres as part of an autonomous tradition of classical fiction, close attention to the texts, their authors, and their literary and cultural context makes it clear that these “fictional” forms cannot be simply or straightforwardly separated from “nonfictional” writing. In particular, the relations between the zhiguai and chuanqi forms and historical writing are close, complicated, and central to a real appreciation of the meaning of classical narratives. To gain such an appreciation we need to be very careful about how we apply distinctions such as history vs. fiction, serious vs. playful, realism vs. fantasy, and so on. We will begin by reading a selection of texts in early Chinese historiography to gain a sense of some of the problems and preoccupations that drive Chinese historical writing, and then proceed to study a sampling of texts from various periods of the zhiguai and chuanqi traditions. In addition to reading these works in relation to traditional problems raised in earlier texts, we will also pay attention to the ways in which the repertoire of short classical tales from the Six Dynasties to the Tang (i.e., roughly 3rd to 9th centuries CE) served as the basis for retellings in later drama, popular fiction, and film. Prerequisites: Chinese 110B.This course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Chinese. We will read samples from a variety of genres, including early Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, indigenous Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, and sectarian works, including Chan gongan (Zen koans). The course will also serve as an introduction to resource materials used in the study of Chinese Buddhist texts, and students will be expected to make use of a variety of reference tools in preparation for class. Readings in Chinese will be supplemented by a range of secondary readings in English on Mahayana doctrine and Chinese Buddhist history. PrerequisitesThis course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Chinese, and at least one semester of Classical Chinese is prerequisite for enrollment. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful but not required.This course explores one of the most central and potent areas of cultural politics in modern China: the city and its relations to the countryside. We will explore how urban space and native soil both become central places of imagination and desire in modernity; how Beijing and Shanghai become mediums of imagining differing meanings of "modernity" and "tradition," "Chinese" and "Western," and cultural authenticity; the repeated reformist and revolutionary desire to return from the city back to the countryside; as well as more recent mass migrations from the countryside to cities during a time of (and as a part of) drastic urban destruction and "renewal." Throughout the course, we will examine fiction, essays, photographs, films, and theoretical writings in order to consider a variety of ways in which people have sought to picture or narrate the shifting relations of cities and country, and indeed how particular forms of image-making and story-telling have been produced out of such experiences of dislocation. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or equivalent (may be taken concurrently), or consent of instructor; previous coursework in literature, art history, visual culture, and/or film.What do landscapes "do"? How do landscape images and travel narratives mediate experiences of land and nature, and how do landscapes map one's place in the world (in terms of both cultural identity and real geographic space)? Can landscapes travel? This course explores such questions by examining one of the world's longest-running traditions of landscape representation. We will consider such landscape genres as poetry, prose description, fiction, travel narrative, maps, painting, and photography, and consider their work across China's long history of imperial expansion, colonization, and globalization. We will also consider the place of China in thinking about landscape and travel in the West. Prerequisites: Previous coursework in literature, art history, and/or visual culture. All readings in English, but Chinese majors strongly encouraged to consult original texts. Open to undergraduates and graduate students.This course is an introduction to a dimension of traditional Chinese writing that was of central importance for premodern writers, but which has tended to fall outside the notice of modern scholarship on traditional Chinese culture: the commentary. Taking the tradition of Analects commentary as our central strand, we will read selected works by exegetes from the Wei and Jin period to late-imperial writers such as Lu Jiuyuan, Wang Yangming, and Wang Fuzhi. The Analects occupy a somewhat anomalous position in the Traditionalist canon. Often viewed as the most direct textual embodiment of Confucius’s teaching, the text was never classed as “scripture.” Exegetes of the “subtle speech” of the sage as foregrounded in this text often have recourse to a complementary dualism of embodied presence and fragmented trace that makes the Analects emblematic of the predicament of the reader of the classics in general. In addition to commentaries in the narrow sense, we will also read examples of the sort of “literary midrash” in which authors from the early-medieval period on reimagined and rewrote the text. In the final section of the course, we will turn our attention to the distinctive cultural institution of the bagu essay as it bears on reception, rewriting and reperformance of the Analects. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.The Chinese 19th century was a tumultuous and pivotal era, one which witnessed both the zenith and the precipitous decline of the Qing dynasty, the complex and violent encounter between a Chinese empire and the forces of global imperialism, and the consequent advent of a new colonial modernity in China. In this course, we will study these transformations as they are registered and represented in literary, historical, material and visual texts produced both in China and the West. Indeed, one of the aims of the course is to study China not as an isolated or distinct entity, but as an active participant in world history and the making of a new modern culture. To that end, we will focus on the literary, cultural, and historical nexus that linked together, and profoundly altered the fate of both Qing China and Victorian England. The course will emphasize not only these larger thematic materials, but also aim to develop and reinforce students' skills in close reading, critical writing, and techniques of cultural and historical analysis. Prerequisites: None. Previous coursework in Chinese and/or English literature and history are helpful, but not required.This course is a pro-seminar required for all entering graduate students in the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures no matter their particular areas of interest. Its purpose is to introduce graduate students in the program to the major theoretical concerns, academic issues, and interpretive methodologies relevant to humanistic studies more generally and to the study of East Asian literature, thought, religion, and culture in particular. Supervising faculty change from year to year, as does the focus of the seminar. Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1A to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.This course provides an overview of Japanese literature and cultural history, from the seventh to the eighteenth century. J7A will begin with Japan's early myth-history, Kojiki, and its first extant poetry anthology, Man'yôshû, which show the first stages of transition from a preliterate, communal society to a highly developed courtly culture. Readings from noblewomen’s diaries, poetry anthologies, and a selection of chapters from the classical Japanese literary masterpiece The Tale of Genji offer a window into that courtly culture and its heights of refinement. We will examine the intermingling of traces of oral culture and high literary art in popular tales from the Kamakura period and explore the early representations of samurai heroism in military chronicles and medieval noh drama. After considering the development of linked verse in late medieval times we will read several types of vernacular literature that emerged in the urban culture of the early modern Edo period including the poetic diaries of the haiku poet Bashô, the popular puppet theatre of Chikamatsu , the comic narratives of Saikaku and supernatural tales by Ueda Akinari. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Japanese literature, history, or language. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to enable their acquisition of a better understanding of Japanese grammar in general and clause linkage in particular.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more (450 hours or more) at college level. It aims to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills through activities such as: reading newspaper articles, essays, poems (e.g.haiku), short stories, etc. participating in group discussions on issues related to the materials read, in class and on-line writing short essays, etc. on topics related to the reading materials, giving a short oral presentation. In this course, students will practice various techniques to read Japanese newspaper articles efficiently. Furthermore, they will become familiar with and learn to appreciate various kinds of Japanese writing, as well as learning more advanced Japanese grammar and increasing their vocabulary. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese. After discussing the basics of classical grammar, we read all of Hôjôki (An account of my hut) and parts of Heike monogatari (The tale of the Heike). The emphasis is on translation into English, grammatical explication, and cultural and literary milieu. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar and literary content, and translate into English. Students are encouraged to read the provided footnotes for practice in modern Japanese and basic background information as well as translations into modern Japanese, English, or other languages. But a line-by-line translation into English by the student is also essential for adequate class preparation. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools.This class offers an introduction to some of the varied literary styles of the Edo period. Readings will include selections from early Edo popular short stories (otogizôshi), Bashô’s travel diaries, Saikaku’s comic fiction, Chikamatsu’s jôruri and Ueda Akinari’s yomihon. Prerequisites: Japanese 120 or equivalent with consent of instructor. Japanese 100B is strongly recommended, but nor required.This course is an introduction to Japanese modernism through the reading and discussion of representative short stories, poetry and criticism of the Taishô and early Shôwa periods. We will explore the historical and cultural roots of many of the key themes in works by Akutagawa Ryûnosuke, Hagiwara Sakutarô, Kajii Motojirô, Hayashi Fumiko, Kobayashi Hideo, and others. We will examine the aesthetic bases of their writing and confront the challenge posed by their use of poetic language. The question of literary form and the relationship between poetry and prose in the works will receive special attention. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100A or equivalent, may be taken concurrentlyThis course provides an overview of the considerations that the translator must take into account when approaching a text. Special attention is paid to the structural differences between Japanese and English, cross-cultural differences in stylistics, writing with clarity, reference work, etc. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Japanese. By means of translating selected texts into English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translation problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. In consultation with the instructor, each student chooses an appropriate text to be translated during the course of the semester. Prerequisites: 102 or equivalent.The course examines the complex meanings of the ghost in modern Japanese literature and culture. Tracing the representations of the supernatural in drama, fiction, ethnography, and the visual arts, we explore how ghosts provide the basis for remarkable flights of imaginative speculation and literary experimentation. Topics include: storytelling and the loss of cultural identity, horror and its conversion into aesthetic pleasure, fantasy, and the transformation of the commonplace. We will consider historical, visual, anthropological, and literary approaches to the supernatural and raise cultural and philosophical questions crucial to an understanding of the figure and its role in the greater transformation of modern Japan (18th century to the present). Prerequisites: None.Analyzing literary treatments of romance and intimacy in Japanese prose and poem. In this course, students examine how a specific aspect, of their choosing, of intimate human relationship is depicted within a specific range of Japanese prose or poem. The course goal is a well-researched and well-argued term paper founded on a solid understanding of the cultural underpinnings of his/her area of specialization and a savvy deployment of a critical approach appropriate for the thesis argued. While the instructor's particular area of expertise is romance of the Heian period and comparative romance, and this background will provide the foundation of much of the class discussion, this class is meant to afford students an opportunity to sharpen their grasp of the intellectual/cultural currents relevant to their specific research topic in how these currents inform depictions or romance and intimacy. Further, the seminar is conceived as a forum for experimenting with or further improving the critical approach(es) that each student is comfortable with. A wide range of approaches is welcome and encouraged. Prerequisites: None. Course is open to advanced undergraduates.Reading and critical evaluation of selected texts in postwar (roughly the 1940s through the present) Japanese literature and literary and cultural criticism. Texts change with each offering of the course. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of instructor.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.This course provides an overview of Korean literature and cultural history, from the seventh century to the late nineteenth century. We will examine the development of oral tradition from the ritual songs recorded in Remnants of Three Kingdoms to p’ansori in late Chosôn period; the major vernacular verse forms such as sijo and kasa; autobiographical prose; and vernacular as well as classical narratives, tales, and parables. We will focus on the interplay of literary texts and performance tradition by exploring such topics as: various aspects of literati culture of Koryô and Chosôn; literary articulations of gender relations; and representations of humor and material culture. We will also consider the suppleness of traditional vernacular culture forms as they have been rearticulated throughout history. Prerequisites: None.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.This course is a critical exploration of the broad range of prose literature before the 20th century, including vernacular fiction, memoirs, travel accounts, and essays. Particular attention will be given to narrative styles, issues of personal identity, and a link between literary text and material culture in the development of prose literature before the 20th century. The course is intended as a close reading of key prose narrative works, while functioning simultaneously as an introduction to basic reading knowledge of premodern Korean texts. This course examines the contemporary urban culture of South Korea through the works of fiction published between 1990s to the present. The course will focus on close reading of the fiction works, but will also consider the relation between literature and visual media, between popular culture and modern history, as well as other issues concerning urban subjectivity. Writers to be examined include Shin Kyongsuk, Hailji, Song Sokche, Kong Chiyong, Un Huigyong, and Kim Yongha. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.This course will provide an overview of the considerations that a translator must take into account when approaching a Korean text. Special attention will be paid to the structural and linguistic differences between Korean and English as well as cross-cultural differences in stylistics. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Korean. By means of translating selected texts in English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translating problems, explore methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course introduces key approaches to modern Korean poetry by closely examining the poems in the recently published collection of Korean poetry in translation, Columbia Anthology of Modern Korean Poetry. We will discuss how to think through poetry, with particular attention to issues on self-presentation, rhetoric and performativity, and the relation between politics and aesthetics. All reading materials will be provided in English. Prerequisites: None.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and its rich literature. Prerequisites: None.This course, a continuation of 1A-1B, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The course focuses on both modern vernacular Tibetan as well as literary Tibetan, with a particular emphasis on reading classical Buddhist materials.. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B; or consent of instructor.A historical survey of the Buddhist tradition, in all of its incredible religious and cultural diversity. The first half of the course focuses on the evolution of Buddhist doctrines, practices, and institutions in India, from the origins of the religion as a group of world-renouncing ascetics through the development of large state-supported monastic communities and the rise of the movements known as Mahayana and Tantra. The second half of the course treats major Buddhist movements in other parts of the world: the Theravada Buddhism of Southeast Asia; the Tantric Buddhism of Tibet; and the various schools of East Asian Buddhism, such as Tientai, Pure Land, and Chan (Zen). It also deals with the issues of Buddhism in the modern world and the contemporary spread of various branches of the tradition from Asia to the West. Prerequisites: None.A critical survey of major themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism. The course covers: the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism during the medieval period; the interaction between Buddhism, "Shinto," and "folk religion"; the relationship between Buddhism and the state, especially during the Edo period; Buddhist perspectives on nature, healing, and pilgrimage; and Buddhist modernism of the Meiji period. Prerequisites: None. Prerequisites: None.This semester the class will focus on the contemporary practice of Indic Buddhism in Nepal and Sri Lanka, the two areas in South Asia where Buddhism has survived uninterruptedly to the present. We will approach these two traditions by examining particular themes such as Buddhist monasticism and its interaction with the laity, Buddhist "modernism," the practice of meditation, the cult of stupas and images, festivals of Buddhists deities, life-cycle rituals, and the relationship to the respective local Hindu traditions. As far as possible we will do so in a comparative vein, in order to explore differences and commonalities between the Theravada tradition preserved in Sri Lanka and the Mahayana tradition preserved in the Kathmandu Valley. Prerequisites: None.This seminar is an intensive introduction to various genres of Buddhist literature in Classical Chinese, including translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian scriptures, Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiographies, and sectarian works. It is intended for graduate students who already have some facility in Classical Chinese. It will also serve as a tools and methods course, covering basic reference works and secondary scholarship in the field of East Asian Buddhism. The content of the course will be adjusted to accommodate the needs and interests of students. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor required. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor required.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one-half hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class.The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1AX for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.The class uses Pinyin and traditional characters. Five hours in class, one-half hour discussion session, and at least two hours in the language laboratory every week. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1AY is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in (Mandarin) Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Five one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 1AX/1BX may enroll in Chinese 10AX, an intermediate level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin, simplified and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and one one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1BX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings and conversation include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. Class meets 5 days a week for one hour per day; students spend 2 hours per week in the language or computer lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 10AX/10BX may enroll in Chinese 100AX, an advanced level course for Mandarin speakers who have intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The readings and conversation materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. Class meets 3 days a week for one hour per day. Prerequisites: Chinese 10BX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.Reading of well-known examples of pre-Han and early Han historical narrative and philosophical argument. This semester, the course will focus on tales of the supernatural in the Mozi and the Zuo zhuan. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A and 110B or a comparable college-level introduction to Classical Chinese. Courses in literary Chinese at the primary or secondary school level are not considered adequate preparation. Consent of instructor is required.This course is an introduction to the history, literature, and music of pre-modern Chinese drama. It is designed to teach the basic knowledge of the literature and performance aspects of drama of the Ming and Qing dynasties up to the present. Focus will on the chuanqi, a poetic drama genre dominant in Chinese society until the mid 19th century and still performed today. Students will read plays in translation or Chinese, depending on language competence. Chinese language and music ability are not required but helpful. Prerequisites: None.This course introduces students to modern Chinese (diasporic) fiction throughout the 20th century, covering short stories, novellas and novels from China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and overseas. We will explore how modern experience of dislocation in various senses — class and gender, spatial and temporal, geopolitical and genealogical — figures in these narratives. The first half of this course includes texts from the Republican period (1911-49), which register the alienation of intellectuals from the masses, the invention of the solitary individual, the rupture between city and countryside, the haunting of the past, the ruin of historical disjunction, and the soul/body search of new women. The second half brings us away from the China proper to marginal and oversea loci in the post-1949 era, where such issues as the imaginary mapping of a rootless city, the queer imagination of the origin, the body politics of (post) coloniality, and the linguistic promiscuity in the contact zone become prominent. We will read all the stories in the original Chinese, supplemented by critical and biographical articles in English. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A or consent of instructor.This course will acquaint students with key thinkers from the Zhou dynasty through the end of the Qing dynasty. While the course is arranged chronologically, we will also take up more thematic considerations, such as the development of statecraft, the idea of the self, and the discourse on kinship. Much of class time will be devoted to careful readings of primary sources in translation, with attention to major themes and modes of argument. Prerequisites: None.In this seminar we will read and discuss sources in traditional literary theory and criticism, from the Southern Dynasties through late-imperial China, in a range of genres including systematic theoretical treatises, popular composition manuals, and a range of forms of practical criticism such as prefaces, marginal notes, and critical commentaries. Topics to be discussed include theories of adequacy or inadequacy of literary expression, genre theory, problems in periodization, and views on the relation between literary composition and Traditionalist scripture (jing). Prerequisites: Graduate standing and a good reading knowledge of classical Chinese.This course investigates the possibility suggested by late imperial Chinese drama and fiction that emotion, instead of being interior in oneself, is rather uncannily exterior. This exteriority of emotion is best captured by performance and theatricality — not only peculiar to opera but also pervasive in fiction — in which emotion is staged on behalf of the other and for the eyes of the other rather than self- expression and absorption. We will examine by what kind of material process emotion was internalized (and why this internalization was a recurrent illusion), what sort of socio-economical as well as philosophical issues informed and were informed by this internalization and valorization of emotion, and how this repeatedly enacted (and failed) process of internalization backfired, resulting in perturbed spirits, broken tokens, mis-delivered letters or writing women as the very "symptoms" pervading Ming-Qing drama and fiction. We will focus on both canonical and obscure zaju, chuanqi, short stories, and novels dating from the sixteenth to eighteenth  century, placing them in the context of a wide range of other discourses such as philosophical essays, medical treatises, connoisseurial guidebooks, and woodblock illustrations. All the primary texts will be in Chinese. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.This course will examine a range of European, Asian and African responses to and representations of violent conflict. We will pay close attention to how catastrophic events are productive of new forms of expression—oral, written, visual, and musical—as well as destructive of familiar ones. We will examine the ways in which experience and its representation interact during and in the aftermath of extreme violence. Our empirical cases will be drawn from our research on comparative European and Asian responses to WWII atrocities, and on the post-Cold War civil wars in Africa. Our different perspectives, from both literary and anthropological studies, will bridge the disciplinary divides among literary and cultural theory, psychiatry and psychoanalysis, and anthropology and social theory. We will be especially attentive to the limits and possibilities of representing violence both during the time it is experienced and also in the history of its aftermath. Among the representational genres explored will be personal memoirs, literature and poetry, film, photography, and other visual arts, music (from protest songs to classical compositions), built memorials, as well as the “language of numbers”—the statistical projections and casualty estimates embedded in human rights reports about otherwise undocumented atrocities. Through both humanistic and social science modes of analysis, and through their combination, we will treat this material as both evidence and representation. Prerequisites: None.An introductory course on Chinese poetry, both ancient and modern, in English translation. The course will explore poetic translation, across languages, across cultures, and across historical ages, not merely from the perspective of the "accuracy" with which a classic text is represented in the translation, but as a window into the nature of poetic tradition and poetic writing itself. Works to be covered in the course will be primarily drawn from the Chinese tradition, but in the interest of allowing a comparative discussion of the course's central themes, a significant amount of reading, also in translation, from ancient and modern Greek poetry will be included as well. The goal of the class is not simply to gain familiarity with Chinese poetry and poets, but more fundamentally to gain skill and sophistication in reading, responding to, and thinking about poetry. All readings will be in English translation. Prerequisites: None.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1A to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.This course surveys many of the best recognized works of poetry, prose and theater of premodern Japan between from the 8th through the 17th centuries. The poetic tradition will be traced from its early origins in the Ancient Period around the time of the first major collection, the Collection of Ten-thousand Leaves, through the development of the 31-syllable waka (tanka), Middle Period renga (linked-verse) sequences and the short haiku form of premodern Japan. For prose, the two canonical classics of premodern Japan, The Tale of Genji and The Tale of the Heike will be read in some depth. Other prose texts include early poem-tales of romance, personal journals by both men and women from both the High Classical and Middle Periods, and stories of romance set in the “floating world” of premodern Edo pleasure quarters. For theater we will read several major plays of the Middle Period’s noh drama theater then plays revolving around romantic trust written for the puppet theater during the premodern era. Reading the texts will afford discussion of the culture and history of the various eras as well as an exploration of aesthetic values. There will be two tests during the regular class schedule and one final paper of moderate length due during final exam week. The paper in most cases will involve a careful reading of the complete text that was covered either partially or not at all in the class. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Japanese literature, history, or language. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to enable their acquisition of a better understanding of Japanese grammar in general and clause linkage in particular.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Readings include Japanese newspapers, magazines, a selection of Japanese literature as sources of discussions. Students learn various writing styles and in-depth aspects of Japanese culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course introduces premodern literary Japanese (bungo). The first portion of the semester covers basic principles of classical grammar. For the rest of the term, we read from three texts, one each from the Heian period (11th c.), the Middle period (13th c.), and the Genroku period (17th c.). This exposes students to various types of bungo. While the focus will continue to be on the grammar of premodern Japanese, the assigned texts will also be discussed in terms of their literary achievements and the cultural context within which they were written. Students are expected to prepare well before class and be ready to answer questions about the grammar and meaning of the passages assigned. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B. Students who have not completed Japanese 10B require permission from the instructor prior to enrolling.Students will learn approaches to reading, in the original language, traditional Japanese poems (waka) by discussing nature poems from two imperial anthologies (Kokin shû, 10th c. and Shin-Kokin shû, 13th c.) and the exchange of romantic poems as contained in one woman’s memoir (Izumi Shikibu nikki, 11th c.). Emphasis is on basic waka principles and the ability of the waka to be ambiguous when used for romantic dialogue. This class assumes that the student has a basic understanding of the grammar of premodern literary Japanese (bungo). Preparation for this class requires the use of a Japanese-to-Japanese classical dictionary (kogo jiten). Prerequisites: Japanese 120 (may not be taken concurrently). Students who have not completed Japanese 120 will be unceremoniously dropped from the course.This course introduces students to the various aspects of modern Japanese literature with particular emphasis on the increasingly evident sense of geographical and psychological dislocation represented in prose fiction, popular narratives, and criticism. We will consider the modernist works of Natsume Sôseki and Akutagawa Ryûnosuke, the crime stories of Edogawa Rampo, and the hardboiled postmodern writings of Murakami Haruki. Selected passages in Japanese will be assigned for close reading, analysis and discussion. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.Selected readings in fiction and criticism. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor required.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.This course provides an overview of Korean literature and cultural history, from the seventh century to the late nineteenth century. We will examine the development of oral tradition from the ritual songs recorded in Remnants of Three Kingdoms to p’ansori in late Chosôn period; the major vernacular verse forms such as sijo and kasa; autobiographical prose; and vernacular as well as classical narratives, tales, and parables. We will focus on the interplay of literary texts and performance tradition by exploring such topics as: various aspects of literati culture of Koryô and Chosôn; literary articulations of gender relations; and representations of humor and material culture. We will also consider the suppleness of traditional vernacular culture forms as they have been rearticulated throughout history. Prerequisites: None.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.This course is designed to bring up the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 102 or equivalent.This course will explore various literary representations of home, garden and other private spaces in the Choson period in Korea. Reading focuses on poetry and essays drawn from the recent collections of Choson literature. The goal of the class is not only to introduce traditional Korean literature, but also to think about the relations between everyday life and literature, and between the lived space and its representation in literature. Prerequisites: Korean 100B; or consent of instructor.This course will provide an overview of the considerations that a translator must take into account when approaching a Korean text. Special attention will be paid to the structural and linguistic differences between Korean and English as well as cross-cultural differences in stylistics. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Korean. By means of translating selected texts in English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translating problems, explore methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and it's rich literature. Prerequisites: None.This course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Students with a particular interest in reading classical literature, particularly Buddhist texts, are encouraged to enroll simultaneously in 110A-110B. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive course in reading modern and classical Tibetan literature, with an emphasis on classical Buddhist texts. It builds on basic reading skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), and is designed to be taken either concurrently with 10A-10B (intermediate Tibetan) or independently. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1AX is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.The class uses Pinyin and traditional characters. Five hours in class, one-half hour discussion session, and at least two hours in the language laboratory every week. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1AY is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in (Mandarin) Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Students who have completed Chinese 1AX/1BX may enroll in Chinese 10AX, an intermediate level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin, simplified and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and one one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1BX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings and conversation include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. A half-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin. Students who have completed Chinese 10AX/10BX may enroll in Chinese 100AX, an advanced level course for Mandarin speakers who have intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The readings and conversation materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. Class meets 3 days a week for one hour per day. Prerequisites: Chinese 10BX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.Readings in pre-Han, Han-Dynasty, Six Dynasties and Tang-Dynasty texts. This course introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage. At the same time, attention is paid to introducing the various genres of prose and poetry and discussing their distinguishing features. This course is also meant to provide some introductory background on the formation of the “Confucian Classics” and the texts of the “Taoist Canon.” Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This course will provide an overview of Chinese poetic traditions from the earliest texts up to the Eastern Han dynasty (first and second centuries CE). As we develop familiarity with the formal and expressive characteristics of the main early poetic types, we will also consider the range of social, political, and religious functions served by poetic writing and performance in early Chinese cultures. We will also consider these early poems in the context of early theories of music and language and traditions of poetic interpretation. Primary texts to be studied include the Classic of Poetry (Shi jing) along with early schools of interpretation of this classic, the Songs of Chu (Chu ci), as well as selections from Han dynasty fu poetry (sometimes termed “rhapsody”). Readings will include a combination of excerpts from the original classical Chinese and English and modern Chinese translations. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor. Chinese cities are the sites of complicated global/local interconnections as the nation is increasingly incorporated into the world system. Understanding Chinese cities is the key to analyzing the dramatic transformation of Chinese society and culture. This course is designed to teach students to think about Chinese cities in more textured ways. How are urban forms and urban spaces produced through processes of social, political, and ideological conflict? How are cities represented in literary, cinematic, and various popular cultures? How has our imagination of the city been shaped and how are these spatial discourses influencing the making of the cities of tomorrow? Prerequisites: Chinese 100B/100BX (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This course examines funerary practices in Chinese history, as a means to explore views of the body, the function of ritual, and conceptions of the afterlife. We will consider the history of burial practice and tomb ornamentation, and the role of imperial tombs in the construction of authority. We will devote particular attention to the way in which the disposition of the corpse functioned as a liminal space onto which debates about cultural values could be projected. Such debates include discussions about the appropriate degree of mourning rites in Warring States thought, filiality and cremation in Confucian discourse, mummification and auto-cremation in Buddhism, and issues surrounding burial in contemporary China.This seminar will provide a forum for students to read deeply and broadly through the history of Tang dynasty poetry and poetic writing, and to familiarize themselves with relevant research methodology. Keeping in mind the particular concepts and concerns reflected in pre-modern Chinese poetic theory (both leading up to the Tang, and subsequently formulated in response to the works of that period), we will broach a range of interrelated subjects, including: poetic self-portrayal; the complex interplay among the rhetorical modes of hyperbole and reticence, implicitness and overtness, and allusion and intertextuality; the development of specific themes and genres; and experimentation with the boundary between normative and the “strange” poetic writing. Prerequisites: Graduate standing (or permission of the instructor) and good reading knowledge of Classical Chinese.Chinese 255 will focus this year on the vernacular short story (huaben) of the late Ming and early Qing. We will be thinking about the question of how to read the vernacular short story, examining both canonical and lesser-known works by Feng Menglong, Ling Mengchu, Langxian, Li Yu, Ai Na, and various anonymous authors. What sort of context should we invoke for the huaben – how, for example, should we read their representation of their relation to the historical and the material? In what sense can they be read as commenting on such trends as the presumed vogue for male love, or the rise of the mercantile? How do the formal properties of the genre invite, yet frustrate, the reader’s attempts at interpretation? How should we conceive of the reading of character, particular in relation to the novels and the drama of this period? Given the frequency with which huaben are taught, and the paucity of recent critical interpretations, this is an area in which the research of current graduate students can truly make a difference. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.This seminar will explore what sorts of new knowledge or fresh analytical angles might become possible by way of an “auditory turn” in the study of modern Chinese cultural history. This is an as yet emergent field, and as such, we will have to address a number of fundamental questions. How do we locate an ‘archive’ with which to work? Is the archive limited to recorded sound —be it musical, cinematic, radiophonic, telephonic, or otherwise? How can we ‘listen’ to textual and visual sources? What do we do with the sounds we hear? How do we write about auditory phenomena? What sorts of forms (musical, aesthetic, narrative, spatial, technological, commodity, social, national) mediate the production, dissemination, and consumption of sound, and how might the transformation of these forms help us track China’s historical trajectory in the twentieth century? Can studying the history of phonography yield a phonographic history?Prerequisites: Graduate standing. Proficiency in modern Chinese language is very helpful, but not necessarily required. The course is designed so as to accommodate students in related and cognate fields (Ethnomusicology, Cinema studies, Japanese, History), as well as those specializing in Chinese literature and cultural studies.What is an image? Why do images seem to have such uncanny powers? What are the relationships between images (visual, verbal, imaginary, etc.) and that which they represent? What kinds of relationships between different peoples, genders, things, places, cultures, and historical moments do images mediate? And what’s at stake in asking such questions? It's a truism that we live in a world saturated with images, but anxieties over images are hardly unique to our own historical moment. Images have been ongoing subjects of reflection for centuries, while the stories literary texts tell about images are particularly revealing of beliefs in the powers and limits of writing as well as of visual images, and of the ways in which such beliefs are almost invariably intertwined with questions of knowledge and power, of the borders of life and death, and of the politics of gender, history, and culture. In this course, we will examine how fictional and historical texts from various parts of Asia and the West explore such questions of images. We will track how understandings of the powers of images change, persist, and are re-appropriated across historical time and cultural space, and consider the critical light “premodern” texts and texts from our “modern” world of images can project upon each other. Prerequisites: None.This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road”. Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion.This course is designed as an historical introduction to the Silk Road, understood as an ever-changing series of peoples, places, and traditions, as well as an introduction to the study of those same peoples, places, and traditions in the modern period. In this way, the class is intended both as a guide to extant textual, archaeological, and art historical evidence from the Silk Road, and as a framework for thinking about the modern Silk Road regions from the perspective of a contemporary American classroom. Prerequisites: None.This course introduces incoming graduate students to literary and cultural theory and criticism. We’ll explore perspectives central and/or foundational to intellectual work across the humanities (including structuralism, poststructuralism, psychoanalysis, feminism and gender studies, postcolonialism, image-word studies, and Marxian and materialist approaches). A central concern will be to explore which the ways in which critical perspectives produced from various positions within East Asian cultural, literary, and visual studies, both premodern and modern, intersect with current intellectual debates in the humanities. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing; or consent of instructorJapanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.Designed to supplement 1A in order to facilitate students' listening proficiency. 1AL will cover a variety of listening strategies and practice applications of such strategies in listening activities. Students will engage in listening activities, including audio/visual exercises that will focus on the matrerials that are taught in Japanese 1A.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1A to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.The field of Japanese literature is extraordinarily rich; it covers over twelve centuries of texts, including the thousand-page classic, The Tale of Genji, often described as the world’s oldest novel, and the seventeen-syllable haiku, one of the shortest poetic forms and still one of the most popular. Like all her eleventh-century aristocratic contemporaries, the author of Genji believed in spirit possession, dream prophecy, and reincarnation. And yet her depiction of the subtle workings of male competition and female jealousy is as psychologically subtle and perceptive as any passage in Proust, to whom she is often compared. J7A will begin with a look at Japan's early myth-history, Kojiki, and first extant poetry anthology, Man'yôshû, which show the transition from preliterate, communal society to a highly developed courtly culture. Examples of the rich Japanese female diary tradition follow, and then two weeks on Genji, the high-point of Heian prose. The second half of the course, examines medieval literature, including religious and aesthetic essays by cultured monks and violent yet intensely moving war stories, sung by priests to the accompaniment of lutes. We will conclude by reading the poetry and travel literature of Bashô, often called Japan's last medieval poet. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to enable their acquisition of a better understanding of Japanese grammar in general and clause linkage in particular.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Readings include Japanese newspapers, magazines, a selection of Japanese literature as sources of discussions. Students learn various writing styles and in-depth aspects of Japanese culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include newspaper articles and other texts as sources of discussions in order to become familiar with various writing styles and learn more aspects of Japanese society and culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.A critical survey of major themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism. The course covers: the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism during the medieval period; the interaction between Buddhism, "Shinto," and "folk religion"; the relationship between Buddhism and the state, especially during the Edo period; Buddhist perspectives on nature, healing, and pilgrimage; and Buddhist modernism of the Meiji period. Prerequisites:  None.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese. After discussing the basics of classical grammar, we read all of Hôjôki (An account of my hut) and parts of Heike monogatari (The tale of the Heike). The emphasis is on translation into English, grammatical explication, and cultural and literary milieu. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar and literary content, and translate into English. Students are encouraged to read the provided footnotes for practice in modern Japanese and basic background information as well as translations into modern Japanese, English, or other languages. But a line-by-line translation into English by the student is also essential for adequate class preparation. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools.An introduction to the critical analysis and translation of representative verses from a thousand years of traditional Japanese poetry, a genre that reaches from early declarative work redolent of an even earlier oral tradition to medieval and Early Modern verses evoking exquisitely differentiated emotional states and seasonal transitions via complex rhetoric and literary allusion. Topics may include the poetry of the Man'yôshû Kokinshû, and Shinkokinshû poetic anthologies, linked verse (renga), and the haikai of Bashô and other Early Modern poets. Prerequisites: Completion of Japanese 120; or consent of instructor. This course introduces students to various aspects of modern Japanese literature by reading prose selections, primarily short stories, by highly regarded authors from the Meiji to Heisei periods (1868- ). Selected passages in Japanese will be assigned for close reading, analysis and discussion. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B (may be taken concurrently with J100A with approval); or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100A or equivalent, may be taken concurrently.This course provides an overview of the considerations that the translator must take into account when approaching a text. Special attention is paid to the structural differences between Japanese and English, cross-cultural differences in stylistics, writing with clarity, reference work, etc. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Japanese. By means of translating selected texts into English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translation problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. In consultation with the instructor, each student chooses an appropriate text to be translated during the course of the semester. Prerequisites: 102 or equivalent.This course attempts to shed new light on the stereotypical images of the traditional Japanese culture and people through archaeological analysis. Specifically, the aims of the course are twofold. First, it shows how recent archaeological discoveries can change conventional interpretations of Japanese history. Particular emphasis will be placed on changing lifeways of past residents of the Japanese islands, including commoners, samurai (the warrior class) and nobles. Second, the course aims to discuss the implications of these archaeological studies on our understanding of Japanese identities. Prerequistes: None.This semester the class will read ‘Diary of Lady Izumi’ (Izumi Shikibu nikki), an onnade (“woman’s hand” or hiragana) text dating, most probably, from the 11th century. This text describes the first ten months of a love affair that was widely regarded as scandalous at the time it occurred. The diary, if that is what it truly is, was written by the woman shortly after her lover died unexpectedly. Their affair is narrated primarily through the exchange of poems. These poems, especially how they advance the needs of each lover, will be the primary focus of analysis and discussion. Prerequisites: Two semesters of classical Japanese language training or the consent of the instructor.Close reading of modern Japanese literary and cultural texts within their literary historical, cultural, historical, and theoretical contexts. Particular themes and time periods change with each seminar. Prerequisites: Permission of instructor required.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of InstructorThis course provides an overview of Korean literature and cultural history, from the seventh century to the late nineteenth century. We will examine the development of oral tradition from the ritual songs recorded in Remnants of Three Kingdoms to p’ansori in late Chosôn period; the major vernacular verse forms such as sijo and kasa; autobiographical prose; and vernacular as well as classical narratives, tales, and parables. We will focus on the interplay of literary texts and performance tradition by exploring such topics as: various aspects of literati culture of Koryô and Chosôn; literary articulations of gender relations; and representations of humor and material culture. We will also consider the suppleness of traditional vernacular culture forms as they have been rearticulated throughout history. Prerequisites: None.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.This course is designed to bring up the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 102 or equivalent.This course will provide an overview of the considerations that a translator must take into account when approaching a Korean text. Special attention will be paid to the structural and linguistic differences between Korean and English as well as cross-cultural differences in stylistics. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Korean. By means of translating selected texts in English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translating problems, explore methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and it's rich literature. Prerequisites: None.This course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Students with a particular interest in reading classical literature, particularly Buddhist texts, are encouraged to enroll simultaneously in 110A-110B. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive course in reading modern and classical Tibetan literature, with an emphasis on classical Buddhist texts. It builds on basic reading skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), and is designed to be taken either concurrently with 10A-10B (intermediate Tibetan) or independently. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.Readings in pre-Han, Han-Dynasty, Six Dynasties and Tang-Dynasty texts. This course introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage. At the same time, attention is paid to introducing the various genres of prose and poetry and discussing their distinguishing features. This course is also meant to provide some introductory background on the formation of the “Confucian Classics” and the texts of the “Taoist Canon.” Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.[course now offered as Music 74, section 2 CCN: 60544]Chinese cities are the sites of complicated global/local interconnections as the nation is increasingly incorporated into the world system. Understanding Chinese cities is the key to analyzing the dramatic transformation of Chinese society and culture. This course is designed to teach students to think about Chinese cities in more textured ways. How are urban forms and urban spaces produced through processes of social, political, and ideological conflict? How are cities represented in literary, cinematic, and various popular cultures? How has our imagination of the city been shaped and how are these spatial discourses influencing the making of the cities of tomorrow? Prerequisites: Chinese 100B/100BX (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.What do landscapes "do"? How do landscape images and travel narratives mediate experiences of land and nature, and how do landscapes map one's place in the world (in terms of both cultural identity and real geographic space)? Can landscapes travel? This course explores such questions by examining one of the world's longest-running traditions of landscape representation. We will consider such landscape genres as poetry, prose description, fiction, travel narrative, maps, painting, and photography, and consider their work across China's long history of imperial expansion, colonization, and globalization. We will also consider the place of China in thinking about landscape and travel in the West. Prerequisites: Previous coursework in literature, art history, and/or visual culture. All readings in English, but Chinese majors strongly encouraged to consult original texts. Open to undergraduates and graduate students.This course will look at the early development of the Chinese Chan tradition through a variety of documents, with a focus on Dunhuang manuscripts and the writings of medieval Tang exegetes. In addition to the usual philological and historical issues, we will focus on a hermeneutic question: what epistemological "frame" is best suited for understanding these early materials? Should we approach them phenomenologically, as attempts to denote and delimit a particular experience or understanding of the world that is immediately available to us as human beings? Are they exegetical works: attempts by the Chinese to grapple with various doctrinal formulations and puzzles found in Buddhist scriptures? Are they performative: prescriptive models of "enlightened" speech and activity used to legitimize Chinese ecclesiastical authority? What other options might there be? The seminar will begin with materials not typically associated with early Chan, including Tantric scriptures and ritual manuals associated with the Tattvasamgraha tradition. The Chinese readings will be accompanied with a variety of recent secondary studies on early Chan, with a particular focus on the so-called Hongzhou school. This course is intended for graduate students with advanced facility in literary Chinese. Permission of the instructor required for all students, with the exception of graduate students in EALC or GBS.In this seminar, students will read across a range of genres, examining how writers of the medieval period imagined and represented man’s place—collectively and individually—in time.  After a brief critical survey of recent scholarship on notions of time in traditional China, the focus of this course will gradually move from explicit, essayistic treatments of temporality, memory, and change, to the implicit expressions of these concerns in works that situate mortal man in time: biographies, chuanqi fiction, anecdotes, and poetry.  Topics of discussion may include: immortality as both source mythology and literary motivation, the rhetoric of commemoration, the spatial representation of time in poetry and essays, the role of fate (ming) in biographical (and autobiographical) writing, the relationship between narration and prognostication, uses of genre as a mode of temporal meditation, and formal reflections of temporal thinking in literary writing.  We will consider the extent to which recent scholarly attempts to characterize temporal thinking in pre-modern China successfully account for the range of perspectives provided by these texts.  Does the underlying approach to temporality shift significantly across genres and themes?  What kinds of changes do we apprehend across the centuries that comprise this period?  Primary texts in Chinese will be the focus of discussion; but students will also be asked to read and refer to theoretical writings where relevant. Prerequisites: Graduate standing (or permission of the instructor) and good reading knowledge of Classical Chinese.The 1960s were a time of world-historical upheaval and transformation. Those extraordinary years were the fulcrum of much of what defines our own post-socialist, post-modern, post-colonial, globalized, and mediatized present. Yet the utopian energies and violent disenchantments of those years often make them seem like a disavowed historical “other,” particularly in the Chinese-speaking world. In this seminar, we will explore the literature and culture of the Chinese 1960s, starting from the culture of collectivization and Cultural Revolution under Mao, and continuing on to examine writing and film-making in Taiwan and Hong Kong in the shadow of the cold war divide. Prerequisites: Graduate standing or consent of the instructor. Reading knowledge of modern Chinese is helpful, but not necessarily essential.This course investigates the material world of the mid-eighteenth century novel Honglou meng (Dream of the Red Chamber), while analyzing the thematization of materiality in the novel itself.  We will examine various models for conjoining the study of literary texts and material culture as we engage in a series of case studies of types of objects featured in the novel.  We will learn how to work with Qing dynasty objects on field trips to the Asian Art Museum and the Berkeley Art Museum. Students will be expected to have read the novel, either in the original or in David Hawkes' translation, before the seminar begins.  Reading knowledge of Chinese is desirable but not required. This course is also listed as History of Art 230.This course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values sometimes provide a given framework for a narrative and sometimes provide the definition of transgressive acts. This is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None.This course will examine war, empire, and the writing and memorialization of history through an eclectic group of literary, graphic, and cinematic texts from China, Japan, Europe, and the U.S. We will begin by examining crucial issues of imperial power, violence, and historical representation through the lens of the Han dynasty historian Sima Qian's classic accounts of "terrorism" in the Warring States period, the rise of the Han empire, and its conflicts with the Hsiung-nu "barbarians" to the north. With these earlier examples in mind, we will turn our focus to two crucial conflicts in modern history - the Boxer Uprising of 1899-1900, and the Sino-Japanese War of 1937-1945 - and their diverse representations in a number of different times, places, and media. Prerequisites: None.This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road”. Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion.This course is designed as an historical introduction to the Silk Road, understood as an ever-changing series of peoples, places, and traditions, as well as an introduction to the study of those same peoples, places, and traditions in the modern period. In this way, the class is intended both as a guide to extant textual, archaeological, and art historical evidence from the Silk Road, and as a framework for thinking about the modern Silk Road regions from the perspective of a contemporary American classroom. Prerequisites: None.A critical survey of key issues in the contemporary forms of Buddhism in Japan.  The course covers: Buddhist emergence into modernity, the rise of new lay-oriented Buddhist movements, the breakdown of traditional parishioner-temple relations, the role of pilgrimage sites and routes, and the internationalization of Buddhism.  We will read primary texts of contemporary Japanese Buddhist leaders, secondary literature on the history and sociology of contemporary Japanese Buddhism, and watch films about or on the role of Buddhism among individuals and organizations. Prerequisites: NoneThis course introduces incoming graduate students to literary and cultural theory and criticism. We’ll explore perspectives central and/or foundational to intellectual work across the humanities (including structuralism, poststructuralism, psychoanalysis, feminism and gender studies, postcolonialism, image-word studies, and Marxian and materialist approaches). A central concern will be to explore which the ways in which critical perspectives produced from various positions within East Asian cultural, literary, and visual studies, both premodern and modern, intersect with current intellectual debates in the humanities. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing; or consent of instructor.This seminar will focus on the close reading of a range of Chinese religious texts drawn primarily from the Buddhist tradition. We will read examples from different genres of Buddhist materials, including biographical, doctrinal, ritual, and historical—geographical sources. In order to effectively study Chinese Buddhism it is also necessary to utilize non-canonical sources along with texts not exclusively categorized as “Buddhist.” Therefore, this seminar will also involve the introduction to and reading of epigraphical materials, Daoist texts, and relevant sections from gazetteers. One of the goals of this seminar will also be to introduce students to the wide range of research tools for studying Chinese religious texts (dictionaries, encyclopedias, indexes, electronic databases, etc.) now available in Chinese, Japanese, and European languages. All of the primary readings will be in classical Chinese. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing; or consent of instructor.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.Designed to supplement 1A in order to facilitate students' listening proficiency. 1AL will cover a variety of listening strategies and practice applications of such strategies in listening activities. Students will engage in listening activities, including audio/visual exercises that will focus on the matrerials that are taught in Japanese 1A.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1A to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.The field of Japanese literature is extraordinarily rich; it covers over twelve centuries of texts, including the thousand-page classic, The Tale of Genji, often described as the world’s oldest novel, and the seventeen-syllable haiku, one of the shortest poetic forms and still one of the most popular. Like all her eleventh-century aristocratic contemporaries, the author of Genji believed in spirit possession, dream prophecy, and reincarnation. And yet her depiction of the subtle workings of male competition and female jealousy is as psychologically subtle and perceptive as any passage in Proust, to whom she is often compared. J7A will begin with a look at Japan's early myth-history, Kojiki, and first extant poetry anthology, Man'yôshû, which show the transition from preliterate, communal society to a highly developed courtly culture. Examples of the rich Japanese female diary tradition follow, and then two weeks on Genji, the high-point of Heian prose. The second half of the course, examines medieval literature, including religious and aesthetic essays by cultured monks and violent yet intensely moving war stories, sung by priests to the accompaniment of lutes. We will conclude by reading the poetry and travel literature of Bashô, often called Japan's last medieval poet. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to enable their acquisition of a better understanding of Japanese grammar in general and clause linkage in particular.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10A to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.This freshmen seminar is an introduction to Japanese animation, or anime. We will screen several animated feature films and read the critical works they have inspired. We will address such issues as globalization and cultural memory, gender relations and the gaze, technology and the representations of the posthuman. All readings will be English translations. This seminar will meet for eight weeks on the following dates:  August 29, September 5, September 12, September 19, October 3, October 10, October 17 and October 24, 2008.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Readings include Japanese newspapers, magazines, a selection of Japanese literature as sources of discussions. Students learn various writing styles and in-depth aspects of Japanese culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include newspaper articles and other texts as sources of discussions in order to become familiar with various writing styles and learn more aspects of Japanese society and culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.A critical survey of major themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism. The course covers: the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism during the medieval period; the interaction between Buddhism, "Shinto," and "folk religion"; the relationship between Buddhism and the state, especially during the Edo period; Buddhist perspectives on nature, healing, and pilgrimage; and Buddhist modernism of the Meiji period. Prerequisites:  None.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese. After discussing the basics of classical grammar, we read all of Hôjôki (An account of my hut) and parts of Heike monogatari (The tale of the Heike). The emphasis is on translation into English, grammatical explication, and cultural and literary milieu. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar and literary content, and translate into English. Students are encouraged to read the provided footnotes for practice in modern Japanese and basic background information as well as translations into modern Japanese, English, or other languages. But a line-by-line translation into English by the student is also essential for adequate class preparation. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools.This course continues the introduction of bungo (premodern literary Japanese). It gives students basic tools for reading and appreciating waka (traditional Japanese poems in 31-syllables) in their original language. The course presented an historical overview of the three dominant premodern waka collections: Man'yôshû (Ten Thousand Leaves, 8th c.), Kokinshû (Ancient and Modern Poems, 10th c.) and Shin-Kokinshû (New Ancient and Modern Poems, 13th c.) The primary stylistic features and poetic techniques of these collections are discussed through reading examples. In the second part of the class we read nature poetry with a focus on autumn poems. In the final segment of the class we read love poetry. Prerequisites:  Completion of Japanese 120; or consent of instructor. This course introduces students to various aspects of modern Japanese literature by reading prose selections, primarily short stories, by highly regarded authors from the Meiji to Heisei periods (1868- ). Selected passages in Japanese will be assigned for close reading, analysis and discussion. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B (may be taken concurrently with J100A with approval); or consent of instructor.The goal of this course is to provide a general picture of prehistoric and protohistoric archaeology in China, Japan and Korea. The course will emphasize the differences and similarities in archaeological studies between East Asia and North America. It will also consider the role of archaeology in East Asian societies today, and discuss how archaeological interpretations have been affected by the social and political contexts in these countries. Topics to be emphasized include changes in subsistence-settlement systems, origins and dispersal of food production, the development of social complexity, and the formation of state. Prerequisites:  None.The course examines the complex meanings of the ghost in modern Japanese literature and culture. Tracing the representations of the supernatural in drama, fiction, ethnography, and the visual arts, we explore how ghosts provide the basis for remarkable flights of imaginative speculation and literary experimentation. Topics include: storytelling and the loss of cultural identity, horror and its conversion into aesthetic pleasure, fantasy, and the transformation of the commonplace. We will consider historical, visual, anthropological, and literary approaches to the supernatural and raise cultural and philosophical questions crucial to an understanding of the figure and its role in the greater transformation of modern Japan (18th century to the present). Prerequisites: None.A close examination of Genji Monogatari in its literary, cultural, and historical contexts.Description not available.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and it's rich literature. Prerequisites: NoneThis course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Students with a particular interest in reading classical literature, particularly Buddhist texts, are encouraged to enroll simultaneously in 110A-110B. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive course in reading modern and classical Tibetan literature, with an emphasis on classical Buddhist texts. It builds on basic reading skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), and is designed to be taken either concurrently with 10A-10B (intermediate Tibetan) or independently. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1AX is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.The class uses Pinyin and traditional characters. Five hours in class, one-half hour discussion session, and at least two hours in the language laboratory every week. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1AY is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in (Mandarin) Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is intended for heritage students with Mandarin Chinese background. Students who have completed Chinese 1BX or 1BY may enroll in Chinese 10AX. The course enables students to further develop their Chinese language knowledge and use it to explore and discuss various issues beyond daily-life topics. Reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 1BX or 1BY; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings and conversation include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. A half-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Students who have completed Chinese 10AX/10BX may enroll in Chinese 100AX, an advanced level course for Mandarin speakers who have intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The readings and conversation materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. Class meets 3 days a week for one hour per day. Prerequisites: Chinese 10BX; or consent of instructor.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and it's rich literature. Prerequisites: None.This course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Students with a particular interest in reading classical literature, particularly Buddhist texts, are encouraged to enroll simultaneously in 110A-110B. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive course in reading modern and classical Tibetan literature, with an emphasis on classical Buddhist texts. It builds on basic reading skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), and is designed to be taken either concurrently with 10A-10B (intermediate Tibetan) or independently. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This seminar will look at the Sarvatathāgata-tattvasamgraha and its exegetical traditions.  It will focus in particular on the related practices of image consecration and generation of oneself as a deity.  After examining the relevant passages in the canonical text itself and considering how they relate to the parallel techniques described in the Tibetan Dunhuang manuscripts, before turning to the tantra's Indian commentaries, including Śākyamitra's Kosalālamkāra and the works by Buddhaguhya and Ānandagarbha.  Finally we will consider the Kriyāsamgraha and other later Nepalese and Tibetan discussions of these practices, with an eye for how these fundamental practices were reworked and reinterpreted by later exegetes. Prerequisites: graduate standing; or consent of instructor.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed specifically for heritage Chinese students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. It introduces functional vocabulary and provides a systemic review of grammar through various cultural related topics. The course teaches and uses pinyin and traditional/simplified characters. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1X is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.This course is designed for students who have had exposure to a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect but possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. Students will gain fundamental knowledge of Mandarin Chinese. While there is training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, prominence is given to listening and speaking. This course will help students meet their basic needs in functioning in Mandarin-speaking environments, while exploring aspects of their Chinese heritage. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1Y is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in (Mandarin) Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings and conversation include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss texts and sentence patterns in their literary, social, and cultural contexts. A half-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course helps students to further develop their Chinese language competence. More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese reading and writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10X or 10Y; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100BX; or consent of instructor.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Tibetan Buddhists view the moment of death as a rare opportunity for transformation. This course examines how Tibetans have used death and dying in the path to enlightenment. Readings will address how Tibetan funerary rituals work to assist the dying toward this end, and how Buddhist practitioners prepare for this crucial moment through tantric meditation, imaginative rehearsals, and explorations of the dream state. Prerequisites: None.The seminar will provide an introduction to the available Tibetan historical sources. The course will proceed chronologically, from the early imperial period to the twentieth century. Genres consulted with include topical histories (lo rgyus), religious histories (chos ‘byung), clan histories (gdung rabs), monastic histories (gdan rabs), biographies (rnam thar), and more. Students will also be asked to supplement these primary sources with readings in relevant secondary scholarship. Prerequisites: Graduate standing.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing basics in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.  Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed specifically for heritage Chinese students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. It introduces functional vocabulary and provides a systemic review of grammar through various cultural related topics. The course teaches and uses pinyin and traditional/simplified characters. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1X is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin (or Mandarin and another dialect) was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.This course is designed for students who have had exposure to a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. Students will gain fundamental knowledge of Mandarin Chinese. While there is training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, prominence is given to listening and speaking. This course will help students meet their basic needs in functioning in Mandarin-speaking environments, while exploring aspects of their Chinese heritage. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1Y is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in Mandarin Chinese. It teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course takes students to a higher level of communicative competence and language social interaction. Students learn to differentiate between written and spoken discourses and between different types of spoken discourse. Students are exposed to the speech of native speakers in real situations and develop sensitivity to communicative strategies. The course trains students to interpret subtle textual meanings and to describe, narrate, and write about opinions using connected paragraph length discourse. A half-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course helps students to further develop their Chinese language competence. More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese reading and writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10X or 10Y; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100BX; or consent of instructor.This course is the first semester in a yearl-long sequence that introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese, also commonly known as "classical Chinese". During this semester, students will focus on reading excerpts of key pre-Han philosophical texts. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage; in addition, students will acquire some introductory background on the formation of the “Confucian Classics” and the texts of the “Taoist Canon.” Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This course provides an introduction to the elements of the Chinese language structure. The main objective of this course is to provide students with insights into the current study of Chinese language. Lectures will reinforce the participants’ analytical competence in the language. Several aspects of language including language typology, prosody, morphology, syntax, semantics, and discourse will be discussed and analyzed in lectures. Prerequisties: Chinese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Linguistics 5 or 100 recommended.This course examines the development of Confucianism in pre-modern China using a dialogical model that emphasizes its interactions with competing viewpoints. Particular attention will be paid to issues of ritual, human nature and morality, stressing the way that varieties of Confucianism were rooted in more general theories of value. Prerequisites: None.This course will examine selected moments in the history of Chinese cinema from the silent era to the present, focusing on the dialectics of realism and convention in film aesthetics and historical representation. In mainland China, realism in cinema was often tied to broader notions of modernity and revolution. At the same time, Chinese film culture always was intricately tied to global cinema, from Hollywood entertainment to Soviet socialist realism, and Chinese filmmakers drew creatively on various foreign film conventions as well as those of indigenous art forms such as traditional Chinese opera and painting. Whether in the “golden age” of Shanghai cinema of the 1930s-40s, the Maoist period of 1949-76, or the post-Mao reform era, various styles of cinema donned the “realist” mantle while also establishing new sets of conventions for later filmmakers to either follow or subvert. This course mainly will follow the dynamics of realism and convention in mainland Chinese cinema up to the present, but some highly influential films from Taiwan also will be considered. Prerequisites: None.We will read the Zhuangzi, the Liezi, and commentaries on both texts, paying particular attention to text formation, to the influence of the text on Chinese religions, and to the way that the Zhuangzi has been positioned relative to other texts, theories, and movements both inside and outside of East Asia.This semester half of the time will be devoted to reading Chinese Buddhist materials directly related to the research interests of the Ph.D. students enrolled in the course. The other half will focus on medieval Chinese Buddhist documents related to debates concerning the distinction between sentient and insentient things. Texts will include Chinese translations of Sanskrit Abhidharma works, as well as indigenous Chinese exegetical materials. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.The social and cultural experience of modernity has long been characterized by successive waves of new visual media, from the periodicals of printing presses to the various forms of moving-image technologies, from silent cinema to computer-generated animation. This course explores new media and intermediality from specific moments in the history of modern China. The new illustrated periodicals of the late Qing Dynasty serve as examples of how new forms of visual culture became both reflexive and constitutive of modernity. Later, silent cinema of the Republican era both drew upon and defined itself against existing Chinese dramatic forms, particularly opera. In the 1930s, the arrival of sound in cinema provided a space for phonographic modernity to be expressed through film. In the People’s Republic, the productive interplay between traditional art forms and cinema entered a new era, culminating in the cinematic adaptations of the “model plays” of the Cultural Revolution. Finally, recent years have seen the explosive growth of internet culture, gaming communities, computer animation, and digital cinema.  Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.This course will provide a basic understanding of the teachings and practices of Buddhism. The central issues will be situated within their broader Indian historical contexts, and the readings follow a generally chronological order. The course begins with the life of the Buddha, the early teachings, and the founding of the Buddhist monastic order. The course then progresses to the cosmological and philosophical developments of the Mahayana, followed by the ritual and mythological innovations of the Buddhist tantras. The final section takes a brief look at how Buddhism moved into other regions such as Tibet, China, and Japan. Prerequisites: None.This course uses the framework of the history of tea in China and Japan to consider how religion, philosophy and the arts (especially literature, ceramics, garden design and architecture) stimulated and were stimulated by practices related to the consumption of tea. It considers tea's role in defining elite and powerful social circles and intercourse between different centers of power. It also considers how each country uses tea to represent its traditions in particular ways. Understanding the tea culture of these countries informs students of important and enduring aspects of both cultures, offers an opportunity to consider how tea ritual draws on religion and art to promote specific social practice, creates a forum for cultural comparisons between the two countries, and, provides an example of the transfer of cultural knowledge from China to Japan. Prerequisites: None.This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road”. Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion.This course is designed as an historical introduction to the Silk Road, understood as an ever-changing series of peoples, places, and traditions, as well as an introduction to the study of those same peoples, places, and traditions in the modern period. In this way, the class is intended both as a guide to extant textual, archaeological, and art historical evidence from the Silk Road, and as a framework for thinking about the modern Silk Road regions from the perspective of a contemporary American classroom. Prerequisites: None. Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.This course surveys many of the best recognized works of poetry, prose and theater of premodern Japan between the 8th through 17th centuries. The poetic tradition is traced from its early origins in the Ancient Period around the time of the first major collection, the Collection of Ten-thousand Leaves, through the development of the 31-syllable waka (tanka), Middle Period renga (linked-verse) sequences and the short haiku form of premodern Japan. For prose, the two canonical classics of premodern Japan, The Tale of Genji and The Tale of the Heike will be read in some depth. Other prose texts include early poem-tales of romance, personal journals by both men and women from both the High Classical and Middle Periods, and stories of romance set in the "floating world" of premodern Edo pleasure quarters. For theater we will read several major plays of the Middle Period's noh drama theater then plays revolving around romantic trust written for the puppet theater during the premodern era. Reading the texts will afford discussion of the culture and history of the various eras as well as an exploration of aesthetic values. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Japanese literature, history, or language. In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This seminar is an introduction to Japanese animation, or anime. We will screen several animated feature films and read critical works with a focus on the themes of gender, sexuality and the contours of the post-human. Students will be introduced to a number of approaches to analyzing and understanding Japanese popular culture. Attendance at the first meeting is mandatory to secure your place in the course. Prerequisites: Freshmen standing.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Readings include Japanese newspapers, magazines, a selection of Japanese literature as sources of discussions. Students learn various writing styles and in-depth aspects of Japanese culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include newspaper articles and other texts as sources of discussions in order to become familiar with various writing styles and learn more aspects of Japanese society and culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.A critical survey of major themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism. The course covers: the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism during the medieval period; the interaction between Buddhism, "Shinto," and "folk religion"; the relationship between Buddhism and the state, especially during the Edo period; Buddhist perspectives on nature, healing, and pilgrimage; and Buddhist modernism of the Meiji period. Prerequisites: None.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese, defined as the native literary language of the ninth to the fourteenth centuries. Four texts are read in whole or in part: 1) Hôjôki 2) Heike monogatari 3) Tsurezuregusa, and 4) Taketori monogatari. The emphasis is on grammatical explication and translation of the texts into English. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar, and translate into English. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools.Description not available.Intensive look at a transformative period of Japanese artistic and intellectual culture, focusing on literature, film, and debates over the place of politics in art from 1945 to 1970. Memory and war responsibility; the reimagination of eros; avant-garde experimentation. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A (may be taken concurrently).This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 10B or equivalent.This course provides an overview of the considerations that the translator must take into account when approaching a text. Special attention is paid to the structural differences between Japanese and English, cross-cultural differences in stylistics, writing with clarity, reference work, etc. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Japanese. By means of translating selected texts into English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translation problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. In consultation with the instructor, each student chooses an appropriate text to be translated during the course of the semester. Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent.This course is an introduction to archaeology of East Asia with emphases on the areas known today as China, Japan and Korea. The time periods covered in this course are from the migration of human ancestors (approximately 1 MYA) to proto-historical periods. We will explore the differences and similarities in archaeological traditions of East Asian countries and that of North America, examine the role of archaeology in contemporary East Asian societies, and discuss how archaeological interpretations have been influenced by contemporary social and political milieu. The topics highlighted in this course include: 1. changes in subsistence, 2. human-environment interactions, 3. origins of food production, 4. the development of social complexity, and 5. formation of states. These topics are discussed in relation to the various scientific analyses employed in contemporary archaeology.This course is an introduction to Japanese animation, or anime, from its earliest forms (in relationship to manga) to recent digital culture, art, and games. We will analyze and study mainly animated feature films and read the critical work they inspired. We will address such issues as cultural memory and apocalyptic imagination, robots and the post-human, cities, nature, and the transnational; gender, shôjo, and the aesthetics of “cute,” as well as consider specific issues in the theoretical understanding of anime within technology and media theory. Prerequisites: None.This seminar explores the relation between literary genres and cultural/social memory in the context of colonial history and theories of postcoloniality. Readings will be focused on specific genres that prove especially relevant in remembering and transforming past experiences (historical novels, memoirs, autobiographical writings, poetry). Students will read primary works by Japanese and Korean writers as well as a selection of historical and theoretical texts.Formations of modernity in Japan from the late Meiji to the early Shôwa period and their political and economic contexts. Materials will include fiction, essays, philosophy, and other sources such as visual texts according to student interest.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.This course provides an overview of Korean literature and cultural history, from the seventh century to the late nineteenth century. We will examine the development of oral tradition from the ritual songs recorded in Remnants of Three Kingdoms to p’ansori in late Chosôn period; the major vernacular verse forms such as sijo and kasa; autobiographical prose; and vernacular as well as classical narratives, tales, and parables. We will focus on the interplay of literary texts and performance tradition by exploring such topics as: various aspects of literati culture of Koryô and Chosôn; literary articulations of gender relations; and representations of humor and material culture. We will also consider the suppleness of traditional vernacular culture forms as they have been rearticulated throughout history. Prerequisites: None.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.A beginning Tibetan class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect).This course is designed for advanced students of Tibetan language.  Its goal is to provide an opportunity for students to further develop their colloquial Tibetan conversation skills.  More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics, with a particular focus on Buddhist-related subjects toward the end of the term.  Primary emphasis will be on the Lhasa dialect of Tibetan, though some variant dialects may also be introduced. Prerequisite: Tibetan 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This is a reading course in classical Tibetan for students of intermediate and advanced abilities. The selected readings will cover several literary modes, including autobiographical narrative, dialogue written in the vernacular, contemplative instruction, and philosophical discourse. Many of the readings were composed in Eastern Tibet in the 19th century and reflect the religious culture of this region and era. Students will be assigned translation exercises and short research projects into the persons, places, and traditions mentioned in the readings.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing basics in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed specifically for heritage Chinese students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. It introduces functional vocabulary and provides a systemic review of grammar through various cultural related topics. The course teaches and uses pinyin and traditional/simplified characters. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1X is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin (or Mandarin and another dialect) was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.This course is designed for students who have had exposure to a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. Students will gain fundamental knowledge of Mandarin Chinese. While there is training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, prominence is given to listening and speaking. This course will help students meet their basic needs in functioning in Mandarin-speaking environments, while exploring aspects of their Chinese heritage. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1Y is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin. Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in Mandarin Chinese. It teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course helps students to further develop their Chinese language competence. More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese reading and writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10X or 10Y; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to assist students in attaining high levels of proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The primary instructional tool will be comparative studies of contemporary works of Chinese literature in conjunction with the movies that are based upon them. This multimedia approach serves to cultivate skills in all four areas listed above. Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100BX; or consent of instructor.This course is the first semester in a yearl-long sequence that introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese, also commonly known as "classical Chinese". During this semester, students will focus on reading excerpts of key pre-Han philosophical texts. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage; in addition, students will acquire some introductory background on the formation of the “Confucian Classics” and the texts of the “Taoist Canon.” Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This course will read key prose accounts from early imperial and medieval China that deal with the cycles and stages of history from both a descriptive and prescriptive perspectives. Early Chinese writers used different historical schemata to describe history, from that of a 500-year cycle between the appearance of sage kings, to the "three stages" of society culminating in an age of "Great Peace," to the periodic intercessions of the Way or Lord Lao, to the Buddhist eras of the True, Semblance and Final Dharmas. How do these views of the stages of history mesh with political and philosophical theories of the time? Prerequisties: Chinese 110B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Intensive reading of the most beloved of Chinese novels, The Story of the Stone (Hong lou meng). We will pay particular attention to the novel's representation of literary subjects and literary objects, asking how it creates characters who seem to be full psychological entities, and how it depicts a richly sensual material world. Students will be expected to be able to read the original text, though a translation of the entire novel will also be available. Students interested in taking the course would be well served to read as much of the novel over the summer as possible, either in translation (use David Hawkes' Story of the Stone) or in the original. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A/100AX (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor. Description not available.Description not available.This course will provide a basic understanding of the teachings and practices of Buddhism. The central issues will be situated within their broader Indian historical contexts, and the readings follow a generally chronological order. The course begins with the life of the Buddha, the early teachings, and the founding of the Buddhist monastic order. The course then progresses to the cosmological and philosophical developments of the Mahayana, followed by the ritual and mythological innovations of the Buddhist tantras. The final section takes a brief look at how Buddhism moved into other regions such as Tibet, China, and Japan. Prerequisites: None.This seminar explores the power of language as it appears on nearby buildings, streets, neighborhoods and other public spaces—the so-called “linguistic landscape” of the Bay Area. In light of such realities as the nationwide English Only movement and California’s ban against bilingual education, it asks how the meanings that are written into and read from bilingual signs on the streets relate to controversial issues of societal multilingualism. Focusing on (but not limited to) public displays of Chinese, Korean, and Japanese, the seminar features a balance of on-campus discussions with class visits to locations beyond UC Berkeley. Readings and guest speakers will challenge participants to contextualize and understand what they see not just with the descriptive tools of sociolinguistics, but also through the lenses of U.S. multicultural and ethnic studies, human and cultural geography, and visual culture studies. Throughout the duration of the course, students will engage in group multimedia projects representing an issue or topic of interest in the linguistic landscape. As a class, we will dialog with other On the Same Page classes at Berkeley, where the politics of visual and linguistic representation in the Adams & Newhall Fiat Lux project are being addressed. Although fluency in Chinese, Korean, Japanese or other languages is not required, this seminar will offer numerous opportunities for students currently enrolled in a language course to enrich and extend their language study. This seminar is part of the On the Same Page initiative. This course will explore how the Chinese and English-language literary traditions (broadly defined) delineate the realm of the ineffable, and how cultural notions of the inexpressible shape the writing and reading of poems, songs, and a selection of prose pieces, from the uses of figurative language and prosody to genre and canon formation. In addition, in order to deepen our understanding of how writing achieves its aims, some attention will be given to non-verbal modes of expression, including calligraphy and painting—and attempts to render them in writing. Over this course of study, students will not only refine their sensitivity to the power of artistic modes of indirection, but will also hone their skills in close reading, analytical writing, and oral expression. All readings will be in English. Prerequisites: None.This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road”. Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion.This course is designed as an historical introduction to the Silk Road, understood as an ever-changing series of peoples, places, and traditions, as well as an introduction to the study of those same peoples, places, and traditions in the modern period. In this way, the class is intended both as a guide to extant textual, archaeological, and art historical evidence from the Silk Road, and as a framework for thinking about the modern Silk Road regions from the perspective of a contemporary American classroom. Prerequisites: None.This class will focus on the Newar Buddhist tradition of the Kathmandu Valley of Nepal. While in India itself Buddhism did not survive beyond the 14th century, it has persisted among the Newars till the present day in Nepal. This allows for the unique chance to study Indic Mahāyāna Buddhism (and the manifold forms of tantric practice it includes) "on the ground" as a vibrant and dynamic religious tradition that concretely shapes and structures the lives of people and the culture and society they inhabit, and that in turn is transformed by the adaptation to this culture and society. We will approach the Newar Buddhist tradition and the dynamics of adaptation by examining particular themes such as Buddhist monasticism and its interaction with the laity, the adaptation to the caste system, the cult of stupas and images, festivals of Buddhists deities, life-cycle and other rituals, the tradition's narrative literature, etc. Particular attention will be paid to the complex relations between Newar Buddhism and the Hindu and autochthonous religious traditions it coexists with. Another important topic will be the recent introduction of Theravāda Buddhism to the Kathmandu Valley, and the impact of Buddhist modernism. The exploration of Newar Buddhism will be tied to other Buddhist and Indic religious traditions and their practice in society. In this way the class will not only make sense of a complex religious field, the Newar tradition of the Kathmandu valley, but also allow for more general insights into Indic Buddhism and how its functions in society. Prerequisites: None.This course introduces incoming graduate students to literary and cultural theory and criticism. We’ll explore perspectives central and/or foundational to intellectual work across the humanities (including structuralism, poststructuralism, psychoanalysis, feminism and gender studies, postcolonialism, image-word studies, and Marxian and materialist approaches). A central concern will be to explore which the ways in which critical perspectives produced from various positions within East Asian cultural, literary, and visual studies, both premodern and modern, intersect with current intellectual debates in the humanities. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing; or consent of instructor.Description not available.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.This course surveys many of the best recognized works of poetry, prose and theater of premodern Japan between the 8th through 17th centuries. The poetic tradition is traced from its early origins in the Ancient Period around the time of the first major collection, the Collection of Ten-thousand Leaves, through the development of the 31-syllable waka (tanka), Middle Period renga (linked-verse) sequences and the short haiku form of premodern Japan. For prose, the two canonical classics of premodern Japan, The Tale of Genji and The Tale of the Heike will be read in some depth. Other prose texts include early poem-tales of romance, personal journals by both men and women from both the High Classical and Middle Periods, and stories of romance set in the "floating world" of premodern Edo pleasure quarters. For theater we will read several major plays of the Middle Period's noh drama theater then plays revolving around romantic trust written for the puppet theater during the premodern era. Reading the texts will afford discussion of the culture and history of the various eras as well as an exploration of aesthetic values. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Japanese literature, history, or language. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This course is designed specifically for heritage learners who possess high fluency in casual spoken Japanese but little reading and writing abilities. It introduces formal speech styles, reinforces grammatical accuracy, and improves reading and writing competencies through materials derived from various textual genres. Students will acquire the amounts of vocabulary, grammar, and kanji equivalent to those of 10A-10B.Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Readings include Japanese newspapers, magazines, a selection of Japanese literature as sources of discussions. Students learn various writing styles and in-depth aspects of Japanese culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include newspaper articles and other texts as sources of discussions in order to become familiar with various writing styles and learn more aspects of Japanese society and culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.A critical survey of major themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism. The course covers: the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism during the medieval period; the interaction between Buddhism, "Shinto," and "folk religion"; the relationship between Buddhism and the state, especially during the Edo period; Buddhist perspectives on nature, healing, and pilgrimage; and Buddhist modernism of the Meiji period. Prerequisites: None.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese, defined as the native literary language of the ninth to the fourteenth centuries. Four texts are read in whole or in part: 1) Hôjôki 2) Heike monogatari 3) Tsurezuregusa, and 4) Taketori monogatari. The emphasis is on grammatical explication and translation of the texts into English. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar, and translate into English. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schoolsIn this class we read in the original Japanese poems related to the autumn season, with some additional reading in poems exchanged in love letters. The autumn poems will be drawn from the Man'yôshû (mid-8th century), Kokinshû (early 10th century), Shin-Kokinshû (early 13th century), and Edo period haikai mostly of the 17th-19th centuries. With attention to grammar, vocabulary and various poetic techniques, the goal is to introduce ways of approaching, understanding and appreciating premodern poems, particularly 31-syllable waka (tanka) and 17-syllable haikai (haiku). The class has two midterms that check the students' ability to work with the poems in the original and one final term paper which allows each student to explore more extensively an area of premodern Japanese poetry of interest to him and her. Prerequisites:  Completion of Japanese 120; or consent of instructor.Description not available.Description not available.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.Advanced Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background.Prerequisites: Korean 10AX/10BX; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.This course is designed to bring up the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 102 or equivalent.This course examines representation of history and memory in South Korean cinema. Contemporary South Korean films demonstrate thematic preoccupation with the nation's history by rendering diverse stories of the past events and experiences. The cinematic rendition of the past registers different ways to project, remember and imagine the past, thereby actively creating the new senses and ideas of historical time. The goal of the course is to develop critical understanding of diverse temporalities of South Korean national cinema. Prerequisites: None. Prerequisites: None.This course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan. The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B or equivalent.This course is designed for advanced students of Tibetan language.  Its goal is to provide an opportunity for students to further develop their colloquial Tibetan conversation skills.  More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics, with a particular focus on Buddhist-related subjects toward the end of the term.  Primary emphasis will be on the Lhasa dialect of Tibetan, though some variant dialects may also be introduced. Prerequisite: Tibetan 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This year's seminar will examine the formation of Buddhist traditions in Tibet from the tenth to the twentieth centuries. After a preliminary review of the kinds of sources that are available to the Tibetan religious historian, class discussions will focus on a range of mechanisms for establishing authority, from polemical writings to lineage formation, visionary encounters and biography, to temple construction, sacred geography, and warfare. The readings will procede chronologically, and class discussions will be supplemented with selections from Tibetan art dating from the period in question. Each student will be expected to pick, in consultation with the instructor, a week (or two, depending on enrollment) in which s/he will present on a Tibetan text (either in Tibetan or in translation) relating to that week’s readings. Prerequisites: C114 ("Tibetan Buddhism"); or consent of instructor.Elementary Chinese. A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing basics in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.    Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed specifically for heritage Chinese students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. It introduces functional vocabulary and provides a systemic review of grammar through various cultural related topics. The course teaches and uses pinyin and traditional/simplified characters. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1X is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin (or Mandarin and another dialect) was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.This course is designed for students who have had exposure to a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. Students will gain fundamental knowledge of Mandarin Chinese. While there is training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, prominence is given to listening and speaking. This course will help students meet their basic needs in functioning in Mandarin-speaking environments, while exploring aspects of their Chinese heritage. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1Y is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Intermediate Chinese. This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in Mandarin Chinese. It teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Advanced Chinese for Heritage Learners. This course helps students to further develop their Chinese language competence. More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese reading and writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10X or 10Y; or consent of instructor.Readings in Modern Chinese - Social Sciences and Literature. The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.ntroduction to Literary Chinese. This course is the first semester in a yearl-long sequence that introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese, also commonly known as "classical Chinese". During this semester, students will focus on reading excerpts of key pre-Han philosophical texts. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage; in addition, students will acquire some introductory background on the formation of the “Confucian Classics” and the texts of the “Taoist Canon.” Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.Fifth-Year Chinese A. Fifth-Year Chinese A. This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.Readings in Classical Chinese Poetry: "Permutations of the Imagination." Students in this course will read deeply in the works of three Tang Dynasty poets: Li Bai, Li He, and Li Shangyin. Although wildly disparate in their respective styles, all three have been characterized as particularly “imaginative”—given to uses of poetic language that, at the very least, challenge readers’ expectations of real-world referentiality. We will devote the early part of the course to articulating such key concepts as “imagination,” “fiction,” and “reality” (primarily through the lens of classical and modern Chinese terminology), reading selected theoretical works in both Chinese and English. Then, engaging in the intensive reading and discussion of the works of the three poets, we will interrogate the content, the function—and the limits—of fantasy and imagination as practiced during this important moment in the history of Chinese poetry. At the same time, we will consider the historical reception of their works and the construction of their personae in order to better understand the contested nature of fantasy in the shifting world of Chinese poetic criticism. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of the instructor. In addition, Chinese 7A and Chinese 110B are recommended, but not required.Readings in Medieval Prose: "Tang Dynasty Prose Fiction." Tang dynasty writers developed a tradition of gossip and storytelling that included elaborate and formally sophisticated written narratives, often of exotic, strange, or scandalous events, where wild flights of imagination are often intermingled with unusually detailed accounts of contemporary life, persons, and events. The most popular and widely circulated of these tales, which later readers came to designate under the heading of chuanqi, or “accounts of the strange,” had a lasting impact on later literary tradition: plots of Tang tales serve as the basis for many of the best-known works of fiction and drama of later periods. In this course we will read some of the best-known works from this body of writing, seeking to develop our critical faculties in responding to the texts, and to build reading ability and stylistic sense in reading classical Chinese prose, while also using these readings as windows onto larger topics in Chinese society, culture, and history. Prerequisties: Chinese 110B; or consent of instructor.Readings in Vernacular Chinese Literature: "Jin Ping Mei." Chinese 155 this fall focuses on Jin Ping Mei (The Plum in the Golden Vase), one of the “Four Masterworks” of pre-modern Chinese fiction. The novel is known as a banned book, but beyond the sensual content there is much we can investigate in terms of the novel’s extraordinary composition. What do we make of a novel that “out-sources” many of its crucial moments by suturing in other texts? How ought we to conceptualize the interiority of its characters, when many of their “thought” come from pre-existing sources beyond the boundaries of the novel itself? How does the novel ask us to conceptualize literary character – and how might characters be read differently than the characters of, for example, nineteenth-century British novels? The last portion of the course will be devoted to Jin Ping Mei’s extraordinary after-life in filmic and other incarnations. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A/100AX (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.Exploring Pre-modern Chinese Novels. Vernacular fiction in late imperial China emerged at the margins of official historiography, traveled through oral storytelling, and reached sophistication in the hands of literati. Covering the major genres and masterpieces of traditional Chinese novels including military, martial arts, libertine, and romantic stories, this course investigates how shifting boundaries brought about significant transformations of Chinese narrative at the levels of both form and content.Prerequisites: None.Confucius and His Interpreters. This course examines the development of Confucianism in pre-modern China using a dialogical model that emphasizes its interactions with competing viewpoints. Particular attention will be paid to issues of ritual, human nature and morality, stressing the way that varieties of Confucianism were rooted in more general theories of value. Prerequisites: None.Readings in Chinese Buddhist Texts: "Early Chan Buddhism." This course will look at the early development of the Chinese Chan tradition through a variety of documents, with a focus on Dunhuang manuscripts and the writings of medieval Tang exegetes. In addition to the usual philological and historical issues, we will focus on a hermeneutic question: what epistemological "frame" is best suited for understanding these early materials? Should we approach them phenomenologically, as attempts to denote and delimit a particular experience or understanding of the world that is immediately available to us as human beings? Are they exegetical works: attempts by the Chinese to grapple with various doctrinal formulations and puzzles found in Buddhist scriptures? Are they performative: prescriptive models of "enlightened" speech and activity used to legitimize Chinese ecclesiastical authority? What other options might there be? This course is intended for graduate students with advanced facility in literary Chinese. Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor required for all students, with the exception of graduate students in EALC or GBS. Texts on the Civilization of Medieval China: "Writing Manuals and Model Texts in Medieval and Early Modern China." In Chinese tradition, the customary emphasis on the identity between author and writing often distracts us from the countless hours of devoted practice and imitation needed in order to acquire even mediocre competence in any formal genre of written “self-expression.” Similarly, the indispensable texts specifically tailored to the needs of the slow process of practice and imitation—primers, practical manuals, and chapbooks of model texts—were often hidden, or even considered embarrassing or lowbrow. Examining the range of practical “how-to” material that survives from traditional literary culture, however, provides us with a valuable perspective both on the constitutive rules and compositional structures of traditional genres of writing, and on the relations between formal writing as a mode of social performance and claims of status or identity and the exercise of political power. To study writing manuals means to study approaches to mastering a specific range of textual genres, and our readings will center on instructional texts oriented toward a few key forms: a) classical shi poetry; b) letters; c) formal administrative documents (such as imperial edicts); and d) examination texts (encompassing shi, fu, and jing yi or “eight-legged” essays). Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.Modern Chinese Literature: "Chinese Modernism." We will be examining the literary and visual cultures of Chinese modernism, with a particular focus on three pivotal moments: the interwar period, Taiwan in the 1960s, and the post-Mao P.R.C. We will situate each of these moments in the global context of contemporary modernist movements in Japan, Europe, and the Americas, as well as within the specific urban locales from which these styles emerged. We will also read extensively in the literary-critical historiography of global modernism. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.Introduction to the Study of Buddhism. This course will provide a basic understanding of the teachings and practices of Buddhism. The central issues will be situated within their broader Indian historical contexts, and the readings follow a generally chronological order. The course begins with the life of the Buddha, the early teachings, and the founding of the Buddhist monastic order. The course then progresses to the cosmological and philosophical developments of the Mahayana, followed by the ritual and mythological innovations of the Buddhist tantras. The final section takes a brief look at how Buddhism moved into other regions such as Tibet, China, and Japan. Prerequisites: None.War, Empire, and Literature in East Asia. This course will examine war, empire, and the writing and memorialization of history through an eclectic group of literary, graphic, and cinematic texts from China, Japan, Europe, and the U.S. We will begin by examining crucial issues of imperial power, violence, and historical representation through the lens of the Han dynasty historian Sima Qian's classic accounts of "terrorism" in the Warring States period, the rise of the Han empire, and its conflicts with the Hsiung-nu "barbarians" to the north. With these earlier examples in mind, we will turn our focus to two crucial conflicts in modern history - the Boxer Uprising of 1899-1900, and the Sino-Japanese War of 1937-1945 - and their diverse representations in a number of different times, places, and media. Prerequisites: None.History of the Culture of Tea in China and Japan. Tea has a long and complex history in both China and Japan. It has been part of philosophical, religious, and literary discourse, and had influence on, as well as been influenced by, visual arts and artisan crafts, architecture, and social practices. This class is about the interaction of tea and the high arts (including philosophy and poetics) in premodern China and Japan. Broadly stated, we begin with the early tea origin myths of China then become more earnest in our analysis with events in the Tang and Song dynasties. While we cover briefly Yuan, Ming and Qing dynasties our focus swings towards Japan in the second half of the course where we look at tea practices in the Kamakura, Muromachi and early Edo periods. Comparing how tea was received in these two countries illuminates characteristics of both cultures and provides a unique example of how culture flows between them. Further, there is an interesting tension between the ordinariness of brewing and drinking tea with the arts and philosophy that have been attached to it and we therefore consider the cross-over of concepts (the movement of cultural “signs”), such as how yin-yang philosophy and the Chinese medical texts based on it created contexts for thinking about tea (Tang China) and how linked-verse poetics informed tea-related social practice (Muromachi Japan). Of necessity, this class devotes a certain amount of time to historical perspectives (era-specific economies, politics, religions) in both countries, geography, and, to properly situate the tea plant itself, we begin with the basics of tea’s origin and the evolving cultivation and crafting practices associated with the plant. Prerequisites: none. [WEBSITE]Buddhism on the Silk Road. This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road”. Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion.This course is designed as an historical introduction to the Silk Road, understood as an ever-changing series of peoples, places, and traditions, as well as an introduction to the study of those same peoples, places, and traditions in the modern period. In this way, the class is intended both as a guide to extant textual, archaeological, and art historical evidence from the Silk Road, and as a framework for thinking about the modern Silk Road regions from the perspective of a contemporary American classroom. Prerequisites: None.Zen Buddhism.This course is an intensive introduction to the history, doctrine, and monastic culture of Chinese Chan and Japanese Zen Buddhism in the light of modern scholarship. We will focus on the interrelationships between Chan and Zen philosophy, ritual, literature, institutional structure, and meditative practice. Our approach will be multidisciplinary, drawing from anthropology, history, philosophy, and literary hermeneutics, and we will use a wide range of primary and secondary readings as well as visual resources. Prerequisites: None. Seminar in Buddhism and Buddhist Texts: "The Guhyasamāja Tantra." Seminar in Buddhism and Buddhist Texts. This seminar will focus on the innovations and ritual systems of the Guhyasamaja Tantra. Readings will be in both Sanskrit and Tibetan. Particular attention will be paid to chapters two, five, eight, and thirteen of the root tantra, and to gain a clearer understanding of how early tantric Buddhists of India and Tibet interpreted these chapters, we will also consider Candrakirti’s Pradipodyotana and other commentarial material. Secondary literature on the Guhyasamaja ritual tradition will also be consulted. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.Elementary Japanese. Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.Introduction to Premodern Japanese Literature and Culture. Through lecture, discussion and essay, we will read and analyze selections from premodern Japanese literature, especially via the consideration of early aesthetics and poetics. Along the way we also consider a number of other “high culture” endeavors. Students will be expected to master a range of factual and conceptual information as well as produce interesting and credible analysis on relevant texts and other topics. Goals: The student will develop skills in reading premodern literary works with some sophistication, will become versed in a wide range of cultural concepts that are an important part of the cultural history of the country and/or relevant to contemporary Japanese culture, and will have a good overview of some of the major historical events relevant to premodern Japanese culture. Texts: We read from a very wide range of texts (more than twenty) but place special emphasis on Tale of Genji (11th c.), Tale of Heike (mid-13th c. - 14th c.), Narrow Road to the Deep North (17th c.), plays by Chikamatsu (18th c.), and several of the major poetry collections (8th c. - 13th c). Prerequisites: None. [WEBSITE]Intermediate Japanese. In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.Intermediate Japanese for Heritage Learners. This course is designed specifically for heritage learners who possess high fluency in casual spoken Japanese but little reading and writing abilities. It introduces formal speech styles, reinforces grammatical accuracy, and improves reading and writing competencies through materials derived from various textual genres. Students will acquire the amounts of vocabulary, grammar, and kanji equivalent to those of 10A-10B. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Fourth-Year Readings: Social Sciences. This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Readings include Japanese newspapers, magazines, a selection of Japanese literature as sources of discussions. Students learn various writing styles and in-depth aspects of Japanese culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Fourth-Year Readings: Japanese Literature. This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include newspaper articles and other texts as sources of discussions in order to become familiar with various writing styles and learn more aspects of Japanese society and culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Fifth-Year Japanese A. This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Japanese Buddhism. A critical survey of major themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism. The course covers: the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism during the medieval period; the interaction between Buddhism, "Shinto," and "folk religion"; the relationship between Buddhism and the state, especially during the Edo period; Buddhist perspectives on nature, healing, and pilgrimage; and Buddhist modernism of the Meiji period. Prerequisites: None.Introduction to Classical Japanese. Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese, defined as the native literary language of the ninth to the fourteenth centuries. Four texts are read in whole or in part: 1) Hôjôki 2) Heike monogatari 3) Tsurezuregusa, and 4) Taketori monogatari. The emphasis is on grammatical explication and translation of the texts into English. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar, and translate into English. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools. [WEBSITE]Classical Japanese Poetry. We read in the original Japanese poems from the Man'yôshû (mid-8th c.), Kokinshû (early 10th c.), Shin-Kokinshû (early 13th c.) and Edo period hokku (haiku) by Matsuo Basho, Yosa Buson and Kobayashi Issa (17th c. - 19th c). While most of the poems from the three major collections will share for comparison purposes similar themes, we also read love poems as a miscellaneous segment of the course and, in another such segment, look at poems in their prose context. Our primary areas of focus are grammar and various aspects of the literary appreciation of premodern Japanese poems (authors and their styles, poetic techniques, and so on). By the end of the course the student should be much more comfortable with reading and appreciating premodern poems, have some sense of the stylistic and conceptual differences among various major poem anthologies, and be knowledgeable about a handful of the major poets over the centuries. Prerequisites:  Completion of Japanese 120; or consent of instructor. [WEBSITE]Modern Japanese Literature: "Japanese Modernism." This course is an introduction to Japanese modernism of the Taisho and early Showa periods. We will consider modernism as an aesthetic, cultural, and intellectual movement within and across the literary and visual arts. Through an examination of representative short stories, novels, poetry, films, and essays the course will explore a series of questions including but not limited to: How can we define Japanese modernism? What are the aesthetic bases of modernist literature, film, and art? How did writers and artists respond to contemporary political trends such as Marxism, feminism, imperialism, and nationalism? In what ways did modernist works reflect rapidly changing conceptions of space, time, and self in the early to mid-20th Century? Primary readings will be in Japanese with supplemental materials in English. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A (may be taken concurrently).Introduction to Japanese Linguistics: Grammar. This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100A or equivalent, may be taken concurrently.Translation: Theory and Practice. This course provides an overview of the considerations that the translator must take into account when approaching a text. Special attention is paid to the structural differences between Japanese and English, cross-cultural differences in stylistics, writing with clarity, reference work, etc. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Japanese. By means of translating selected texts into English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translation problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. In consultation with the instructor, each student chooses an appropriate text to be translated during the course of the semester. Prerequisites: 102 or equivalent.Archaeology of East Asia. The goal of this course is to provide a general picture of prehistoric and protohistoric archaeology in China, Japan and Korea. The course will emphasize the differences and similarities in archaeological studies between East Asia and North America. It will also consider the role of archaeology in East Asian societies today, and discuss how archaeological interpretations have been affected by the social and political contexts in these countries. Topics to be emphasized include changes in subsistence-settlement systems, origins and dispersal of food production, the development of social complexity, and the formation of state. Prerequisites:  None.Ghosts and the Modern Literary Imagination. The course examines the complex meanings of the ghost in modern Japanese literature and culture. Tracing the representations of the supernatural in drama, fiction, ethnography, and the visual arts, we explore how ghosts provide the basis for remarkable flights of imaginative speculation and literary experimentation. Topics include: storytelling and the loss of cultural identity, horror and its conversion into aesthetic pleasure, fantasy, and the transformation of the commonplace. We will consider historical, visual, anthropological, and literary approaches to the supernatural and raise cultural and philosophical questions crucial to an understanding of the figure and its role in the greater transformation of modern Japan (18th century to the present). Prerequisites: None.Cold War Culture in Korea: Literature and Film. This course examines the formation and transformation of global Cold War culture in South Korean literature and film of the 20th century. It pays close attention to representations of the Korean War and its aftermath in literature and cinema, but opens up the field of inquiry to encompass larger sociocultural issues related to the Cold War system manifest in literature and cinema. Prerequisites: None.Topics in Japanese Film: "Contemporary Japanese Cinema." This course surveys cinema and animation in Japan from the late-20th Century to the present moment. We begin with the end of the studio system in the 1960s and the diverse trends that emerged in its wake. We then consider the industrial shifts, technological innovations, and formal experimentations that followed. Topics include postmodernism and consumption, youth violence and exploitation, changing views of the family, cultural and ethnic hybridity, globalization and genre formation, post-humanism, intermediality, and uses of the historical past. Throughout the course we will discuss current critical debates about broader trends in Japanese film and culture, as they illuminate the construction and ruptures in notions of Japanese cinema and identity. Prerequisites: None.Seminar in Classical Japanese Poetry: "Seminar in Japanese Linked Verse (Renga)." Linked verse was one of the most popular forms of poetry in premodern Japanese history, both in its "orthodox" (ushin) form, practiced by such late medieval poets as Sôgi, Shôhaku, and Sôchô, and in its "unorthodox" (haikai) interation, adopted and then transformed by the great Edo-period poet Bashô. Orthodox renga is also the most difficult form of Japanese poetry to interpret, given its brevity and allusiveness. The goal of this course is to establish an overall appreciation of the history of linked verse and its rules, and to gain practice in reading the hundred-verse sequence (hyakuin) by those rules. Particular attention will be paid to the role of convention and intertextuality in the art of linking (tsukeai), to progression (yukiyô), and to the relationship between formula and creativity. We will also look at how contemporary poets "read" the hyakuin, by using one or more "self commentaries" (jichû). The course will conclude with an exploration of the haikai form of the genre, via a kasen (thirty-six-verse sequence) by Bashô and his coterie. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Seminar in Prewar Japanese Literature. Close reading of literary texts chosen from the late nineteenth century thorough the 1940s. The seminar will examine the major forms, themes, and contexts of the modern Japanese novel and the allied arts. We will draw on a wide variety of secondary sources including literary journalism, academic criticism, and theoretical works in the study of narrative, poetics, and the sociology of literature. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.Elementary Korean for Non-heritage Speakers. Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Elementary Korean for Heritage Speakers. Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.Introduction to Pre-Modern Korean Literature and Culture. This is an undergraduate survey course dealing with the most important works of Korean literature from the fifteenth through the nineteenth century, particularly focusing on the interactions between literature and performance. This class will consider adaptations of traditional Korean poetry, sijo and kasa, in various public and private venues of performance that include state rituals, gatherings of literati, and musical and dance performances by courtesans. Class readings will also include fictional narratives such as Tale of Ch’unhyang, which were circulated both as written texts and through oral transmission, and were adopted into the vocal performance of p’ansori. In the latter part of this course, the literary representation of courtesans as female performers will be investigated through readings of the tales of romance set at the court, as well as Dream of Nine Clouds, the most recognized classical Korean novel. Discussion topics will include the theatrical aspects of state ritual, the music and entertainment culture of the literati, the social functions of courtesan performance, and the conception of gender as a performed identity. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.Intermediate Korean. A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Intermediate Korean for Heritage Speakers. A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.Advanced Korean. Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.Advanced Korean for Heritage Speakers. Advanced Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background.Prerequisites: Korean 10AX/10BX; or consent of instructor.Fourth-Year Readings – Literature. An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.Fifth-Year Korean A. This course is designed to bring up the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 102 or equivalent.Critical Approaches to Modern Korean Literature: "Colonization/Decolonization." The course will examine the discourses of colonization and decolonization in modern Korea, through readings in modern fictional narrative, poetry, and literary criticism. Class discussions will deal with various aspects of Japanese colonialism in Korea in terms of class, gender, ethnic identities, and language. Particular attention will be given to the questions of how Japanese colonialism was involved in the formation of modern Korean literature, how Korean literary works were engaged in producing the colonial subject, and how Korean nationalism was developed as a counterdiscourse during the colonial period. The latter half of the course will examine how the colonial past was reimagined in relation to state formation in both Koreas after the Liberation of 1945. Students will be encouraged to develop comparative perspectives in East Asia and beyond. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.This course examines representations of history and memory in contemporary Korean cinema. Korean films have displayed a thematic preoccupation with the nation's tumultuous past by presenting diverse stories of past events and experiences. The course pays close attention to the ways in which popular narrative films render history and memory meaningful and pertinent to contemporary film viewers. Prerequisites: None. Prerequisites: None.Cold War Culture in Korea: Literature and Film. This course examines the formation and transformation of global Cold War culture in South Korean literature and film of the 20th century. It pays close attention to representations of the Korean War and its aftermath in literature and cinema, but opens up the field of inquiry to encompass larger sociocultural issues related to the Cold War system manifest in literature and cinema. Prerequisites: None.Elementary Tibetan. A beginning Tibetan class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect).Advanced Tibetan Conversation. This course is designed for advanced students of Tibetan language.  Its goal is to provide an opportunity for students to further develop their colloquial Tibetan conversation skills.  More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics, with a particular focus on Buddhist-related subjects toward the end of the term.  Primary emphasis will be on the Lhasa dialect of Tibetan, though some variant dialects may also be introduced. Prerequisite: Tibetan 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.A beginning (Mandarin) Chinese class developing basics in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Chinese 1A is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed specifically for heritage Chinese students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. It introduces functional vocabulary and provides a systemic review of grammar through various cultural related topics. The course teaches and uses pinyin and traditional/simplified characters. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1X is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin (or Mandarin and another dialect) was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.This course is designed for students who have had exposure to a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. Students will gain fundamental knowledge of Mandarin Chinese. While there is training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, prominence is given to listening and speaking. This course will help students meet their basic needs in functioning in Mandarin-speaking environments, while exploring aspects of their Chinese heritage. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1Y is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the beginnings of Chinese civilization to the Song dynasty, look at aspects of Chinese visual and material culture, and place these artifacts in their historical and cultural contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. The course surveys the expansive literary and cultural topography of early China, while at the same time helping students to develop the reading and writing skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in Mandarin Chinese. It teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course takes students to a higher level of communicative competence and language social interaction. Students learn to differentiate between written and spoken discourses and between different types of spoken discourse. Students are exposed to the speech of native speakers in real situations and develop sensitivity to communicative strategies. The course trains students to interpret subtle textual meanings and to describe, narrate, and write about opinions using connected paragraph length discourse. A half-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course helps students to further develop their Chinese language competence. More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese reading and writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10X or 10Y; or consent of instructor.Social Sciences and Literature. The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.This course is the first semester in a yearl-long sequence that introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese, also commonly known as "classical Chinese". During this semester, students will focus on reading excerpts of key pre-Han philosophical texts. Emphasis is on grammatical analysis and careful explication of classical usage; in addition, students will acquire some introductory background on the formation of the “Confucian Classics” and the texts of the “Taoist Canon.” Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This class is designed as a hands-on introduction to classical Chinese poetry, with an eye to developing the student’s ability to read and interpret poems in the original. Students will learn to perceive and articulate the aesthetic, formal, philosophical, and socio-historical features of selected poems thought to be representative of particular periods, movements, and genres. Prerequisite: Chinese 10B or permission of the instructor. Advanced students in Japanese and Korean (with reading knowledge of Chinese characters) are welcome.This course discusses Taiwan’s social and cultural transformation throughout its history of colonization, economic development, and democratization. Students are expected to gain a better understanding of Taiwanese history, literature, and culture, new skills in the reading and analysis of textual and cultural artifacts, and the ability to rethink colonialism, nationalism, and resistance in the era of globalization. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A/100XA (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This course will introduce students to selected works of Chinese literature written in the second half of the twentieth century. We will read stories and novels by major modern writers, as well as a number of newly emergent contemporary authors. The course is not a survey; rather, we will read an idiosyncratic selection of texts produced from out of the dizzying historical transformations of World War Two, the Cold War, and our own post-Mao, post-Chiang moment. In particular, we will ask why - in an age of globalization and economic effervescence - Chinese fiction remains haunted by questions of history, violence, death, and impermanence, be it of the self or the environment. All readings will be in Chinese, supplemented by occasional critical and biographical articles in English, and film screenings. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A/100XA (may be taken concurrently); good reading knowledge of modern Chinese; or consent of instructor. Previous coursework in Chinese or other literary traditions is also helpful, but not required.This course introduces Chinese film auteurs since the late 1970s across the geopolitical divides between Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. We will focus on individual film auteurs (Jia Zhangke, Hou Hsiao-hsien, Wong Kar Wai, etc.) situated in distinct “new wave” movements in these three different regions, each in conversation with the global “new wave” cinema while engaging their respective political and cultural history. The class will combine inquiries of film style with pressing political and social issues facing contemporary Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Introducing major scholarship on contemporary Chinese language cinema, this class will investigate the assumptions and validity of the notion of “film auteur” as well as notions of New Wave cinema based on a European, particularly French model. We will end with a turn to popular cinema, by looking at how issues of genre and auteur suggest new possibilities of negotiations with the force of Hollywood and globalization. Prerequisites: None.This course examines the development of Confucianism in pre-modern China using a dialogical model that emphasizes its interactions with competing viewpoints. Particular attention will be paid to issues of ritual, human nature and morality, stressing the way that varieties of Confucianism were rooted in more general theories of value. Prerequisites: None.An intensive introduction to research in the field of Chinese Buddhism. Topics will include: the early Chinese assimilation of Buddhism; the emergence of medieval Chinese Buddhist "schools" such as Chan, Tiantai, Pure Land, and the Esoteric tradition; the significance of the Mogao (Dunhuang) cave site and library; Song Buddhism; "popular Buddhism" and material culture; etc. Secondary readings will be supplemented (for those with a background in literary Chinese) with readings in indigenous Chinese sutra and sastra materials such as Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana, Visualization Sutra, Platform Sutra, Mulian Saving His Mother, etc. The course is intended for graduate students with a background in Buddhism, East Asian literature, or East Asian history or art history, who may not have a background in the study of Chinese Buddhism per se. (It is designed in part to serve as preparation for a Ph.D. qualifying exam in the area.). Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor required for all students, with the exception of graduate students in EALC or GBS.Emotion takes place. It is not simply projected onto space or attached to a location, humanizing the external alienating reality with meaning; rather, in a more fundamental sense, emotion per se is spatial. This course reconceives emotion not as an inner state of mind but as a spatio-ontological structure that has a history. Covering literature, architecture, ritual practice, and intellectual discourse in antiquity to eighteenth-century in China, we pay special attention to the transformation of medieval dreamscapes to early modern theatricality. The goal is to chart an alternative history of Chinese poetics, performance, and narrativity, explore diverse models of subject and community formation, and put on trial recent approaches of cognitive psychology and affect theory. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.This course investigates the interaction between film and theater both in theory and practice from the late nineteenth century to the present. We focus on key issues of film and theater as constructions of social space and subjectivity as well as technologies of perception. The course will discuss seminal works on theatricality, performance, spectatorship, intermediality, visual and space theories, ecology, and object oriented ontology while engaging historical practices and critical texts in a number of cultural contexts including Asia, Europe, and North America. The comparative aspects of the course thus pertain to both the comparison between film and theater—with our investigation of such media distinctions as a discursive and social construct—and comparative perspectives drawing on a variety of international contexts. Students are particularly encouraged to contribute to these two comparative perspectives by developing research projects situated in culturally and historically specific theories and practices and from their own fields of training and specialization. The course welcome graduate students from a number of disciplines, including but not limited to film and performance studies, East Asian Studies, architecture and environmental design, anthropology, art history, and other fields. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.This course will provide a basic understanding of the teachings and practices of Buddhism. The central issues will be situated within their broader Indian historical contexts, and the readings follow a generally chronological order. The course begins with the life of the Buddha, the early teachings, and the founding of the Buddhist monastic order. The course then progresses to the cosmological and philosophical developments of the Mahayana, followed by the ritual and mythological innovations of the Buddhist tantras. The final section takes a brief look at how Buddhism moved into other regions such as Tibet, China, and Japan. Prerequisites: None.Tea has a long and complex history in China and Japan. It has had a role in philosophical, religious, and literary discourse. It influenced, and was influenced by, visual arts, artisan endeavors, architecture, and social practices. This class considers the interaction of tea with arts, philosophy and poetics in premodern China and Japan. Broadly stated, we begin with the early tea origin myths of China then become more earnest in our analysis with events in the Tang and Song dynasties. While we cover briefly Yuan, Ming and Qing dynasties our focus swings towards Japan in the second half of the course where we look at tea practices in the Kamakura, Muromachi and early Edo periods. Comparing how tea was received in these two countries illuminates characteristics of both cultures and provides a unique example of how culture flows between them. Further, there is a dialectic between the ordinariness of brewing and drinking tea with the arts and philosophy and we therefore consider the cross-over of concepts (the movement of cultural “signs”), such as how yin-yang philosophy and the Chinese medical texts based on it created contexts for thinking about tea (Tang China) and how linked-verse poetics informed tea-related social practice (Muromachi Japan). Of necessity, this class devotes a certain amount of time to overview-level historical perspectives (era-specific economies, politics, religions) in both countries, geography, and, to properly situate the tea plant itself, we begin with the basics of tea’s origin and the evolving cultivation and leaf-crafting practices associated with the plant. Prerequisites: none. [WEBSITE]This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road”. Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion. All readings will be in English. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed as an upper division undergraduate class meeting twice a week. It will discuss the historical development of one school of East Asian Buddhism known as Pure Land. The Pure Land school is the largest form of Buddhism practiced today in China and Japan, though its study in the West has only recently been undertaken in earnest. There are literally thousands of books on this topic published in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese in the past 100 years, but limited materials are available in English. The curriculum is divided into India, China, and Japan sections, with the second half of the course focusing exclusively on Japan where this form of religious culture blossomed most dramatically, covering the ancient, medieval, and modern periods. The curriculum will begin with a reading of the core scriptures that form the basis of the belief system and then move into areas of cultural expression. The course will follow two basic trajectories over the centuries: doctrine/philosophy and culture/society. The first will require the critical reading of scriptures and their historical interpretations, the second looks at the impact of this doctrinal interpretation in society and the arts. Prerequisites: None.We will explore the cinematic style of East Asian horror cinema, its power to provoke and disturb, in light of issues such as spectatorship, the fantastic and the uncanny, and the trauma of gender and sexuality. The aim of the course is to encourage a theoretical understanding of horror cinema, its stock figures and conventions, as well as its critical potential. Prerequisites: None.This course introduces incoming graduate students to literary and cultural theory and criticism. Students explore perspectives that have been central to intellectual work across the humanities (including structuralism, poststructuralism, psychoanalysis, feminism and gender studies, postcolonialism, image-word studies, and Marxian and materialist approaches). A central concern will be to explore how critical perspectives produced from various positions within East Asian cultural, literary, and visual studies, both premodern and modern, intersect with current intellectual debates in the humanities. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing; or consent of instructor.What did Buddhist ritual look like before the grand esoteric synthesis of the seventh and eighth centuries CE? To investigate the precedents of esoteric Buddhism, we must look to earlier genres of incantatory literature: vidyā (spells), rakṣā (wards), and dhāraṇī (encapsulations).The seminar will focus in detail on the Mahāmāyūrīvidyārājñī (Great Peahen, Queen of Spells) and the Amoghapāśahṛdaya (Unerring Lasso’s Heart-Spell, an early precursor to the Amoghapāśakalparāja). We will examine these texts and associated literature in a variety of languages, including Sanskrit, Tibetan, and Chinese; competence in reading at least one of these languages is required to participate in the course. Prerequisites: Graduate standing. Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.Approach: Through lecture, discussion and essay, we will read and analyze selections from premodern Japanese literature (poetry, prose and drama), especially via the consideration of cultural concepts (such as purity, exile), themes (such as rancor, shame) and aesthetics terms (such as rustic beauty). While this class focuses on literature, we do take some time to consider the visual arts, music and the formation of the tea ceremony. Students will be expected to master a range of factual and conceptual information as well as produce interesting and credible analysis on course topics. Goals: Students develop sophistication in reading premodern literary works, become versed in a range of cultural concepts that are important to the cultural history of the country and/or relevant to contemporary Japanese culture, and obtain a good overview of some of the major historical events relevant to premodern Japanese culture. Texts and other materials: We read selections from a very wide range of literary texts, 10th to 18th centuries, but there is a considerable amount of visual information presented as well. Prerequisites: none. [WEBSITE]In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Although the main emphasis will be aural/oral skills, an increasing amount of reading and writing will also be required. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A/B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Students who have not taken Japanese 1A/B at this University may wish to contact the instructors during Phase I Tele-BEARS to have their language proficiency assessed.This course is designed specifically for heritage learners who possess high fluency in casual spoken Japanese but little reading and writing abilities. It introduces formal speech styles, reinforces grammatical accuracy, and improves reading and writing competencies through materials derived from various textual genres. Students will acquire the amounts of vocabulary, grammar, and kanji equivalent to those of 10A-10B. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. There will be a project which will give students the opportunity to interact with Japanese university students. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Readings include Japanese newspapers, magazines, a selection of Japanese literature as sources of discussions. Students learn various writing styles and in-depth aspects of Japanese culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include newspaper articles and other texts as sources of discussions in order to become familiar with various writing styles and learn more aspects of Japanese society and culture. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess fourth-year level ability or equivalent in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their ability in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course may have a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course will focus on the development of reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students will conduct their own projects based on in-depth reading of materials drawn from their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan will be invited to the classroom to speak, their topics to be discussed afterwards. This will provide an additional opportunity for the student to practice listening and speaking of high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home will be essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 102 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese, defined as the native literary language of the ninth to the fourteenth centuries. Four texts are read in whole or in part: 1) Hôjôki 2) Heike monogatari 3) Tsurezuregusa, and 4) Taketori monogatari. The emphasis is on grammatical explication and translation of the texts into English. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar, and translate into English. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Not open to graduates of Japanese high schools.Content: In J155 we read, in the original language, full-length modern Japanese short stories by highly regarded authors from the Meiji through Heisei periods. The stories for this class are selected based on two primary qualities: distinct contrasts in written style and inherent interest of theme. Goals: Since we read in the original Japanese, there are inevitably questions of vocabulary and grammar. Our primary activity, however, is considering how sentence structure, rhythm, pace, word choice and dialect support a work's success as a literary object. Since we read a large number of short stories, the overall structure of the course also functions as an introduction to a variety of Japanese authors of merit. Prerequisites: Completed or concurrent enrollment in J100A (as a minimum), or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100A or equivalent, may be taken concurrently.An overview of the concepts of theoretical and contrastive linguistics which form the basis for translation between Japanese and English. By means of translating selected texts, students will acquire abilities to recognize common problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. . Prerequisites: 102 or equivalent.Critical Readings on the Tannishō. A late 13th century text that has been the best-selling Buddhist book in modern Japan, the Tannishō has never received proper text-critical analysis or an assessment of its appeal in modern Japanese culture. Focus will be on its provenance, how it was read in Edo-period commentaries by Jinrei and Ryōshō, and how the text is understood in modern critical studies. Despite the problematic relationship between the self and Buddhist enlightenment, self-reflective literature (jishô bungaku 自照文学) holds a particularly important place among classical Japanese literary genres. J230 will survey the masterpieces of the Japanese diary tradition, including selections from Kagerô nikki 蜻蛉日記 (The gossamer journal), Murasaki Shikibu nikki 紫式部日記 (The diary of Murasaki Shikibu), and Towazugatari とはづがたり (Confessions of Lady Nijô). Undergraduates who have taken J120, Introduction to Classical Japanese, are welcome to participate. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor."The Future of Postwar Fiction." We will focus on the novels, short stories and essays of the postwar period.  We will examine the ways in which aesthetics and politics are bound up in these texts, and how different writers and artists strove to represent their experience of war and social change.  Our attempts to make sense of these works and the shapes of their relationships will also take place against the backdrop of a range of questions concerning subjectivity and the nation, censorship and the archives, theories of embodiment and performance. Finally, we will explore how these texts take up history and memory as a supplementary relation, one that is the basis for an understanding of the past (and futurity) that may never attain closure. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing. Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including Hangul (Korean writing system) and the basic grammar of the language. Emphasis is on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. This course is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. Prerequisites: None.Please note: Korean 1A is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Five classroom hours per week are required. This course introduces students to beginning level Korean. This course is for students who can read Hangul (Korean writing system) or speak some Korean, but their ability to read, write, or speak in Korean is somewhat limited. Prerequisites: Some knowledge of the Korean language; or consent of Instructor.This is an undergraduate survey course dealing with the most important works of Korean literature from the fifteenth through the nineteenth century, particularly focusing on the interactions between literature and performance. This class will consider adaptations of traditional Korean poetry, sijo and kasa, in various public and private venues of performance that include state rituals, gatherings of literati, and musical and dance performances by courtesans. Class readings will also include fictional narratives such as Tale of Ch’unhyang, which were circulated both as written texts and through oral transmission, and were adopted into the vocal performance of p’ansori. In the latter part of this course, the literary representation of courtesans as female performers will be investigated through readings of the tales of romance set at the court, as well as Dream of Nine Clouds, the most recognized classical Korean novel. Discussion topics will include the theatrical aspects of state ritual, the music and entertainment culture of the literati, the social functions of courtesan performance, and the conception of gender as a performed identity. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.A second-year course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading and writing with the cultural emphasis. This course meets five classroom hours per week and requires one hour of language lab per week. Prerequisites: Korean 1A/B; or consent of instructor. A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.Three 1-hour meetings per week. Readings and discussions in Korean, of modern writings. A variety of texts such as essays, literary works, magazines and newspapers will be introduced. Emphasis is on advanced-level vocabulary, including approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters. Prerequisites: Korean 10A/10B; or consent of instructor.Advanced Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background.Prerequisites: Korean 10AX/10BX; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of literary texts in modern Korean. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.This course is designed to bring up the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 102 or equivalent.This course explores the formation and development of Korean literature during the colonial period (1910-1945) through key canonical texts and their thematic and stylistics features.  Its post-colonial approach is designed to facilitate critical understanding of the relationship between the literary representation and the problems and contradictions of the Japanese colonial rule. Course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).The course examines the development and transformation of Korean literature since the 1945 liberation to the present.  In particular, it explores how Korean literature engaged, represented and thematized the tumultuous historical events and changes, such as literation, nation’s partition, Korean War, industrialization, democratization etc. Course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).This course will explore the moments of intercultural encounters captured in Korean literature from the sixteenth through the twentieth century. Encounters with foreign cultures and literary reflections on them have emerged as prominent at critical moments of Korean history, such as periods of great social transition or international conflict. It is not a coincidence, in this regard, that many of the most important works of Korean literature have been produced in response to interactions with foreign cultures. In this course, we will be addressing questions concerning how experiences of the encounters of foreign cultures have been represented in Korean literature from the sixteenth through the twentieth century; what their domestic ramifications were, especially in terms of literary genres; and how the transformation of Korean national identity have been imagined and articulated in literary works. The reading list for includes travel writings, fictional war narratives, the records of Chosŏn officials’ diplomatic visits to Qing China of the Chosŏn period. In the latter half of the course, we will be reading representative modern fictional narratives that deal with the crucial issues of modernization, colonization, and the division of Korea, all of which were occurring against the complex background of international relations of modern East Asia. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.This course examines modern Korean literature of the first half of the twentieth century within the nexus of state, class, and gender. Because of the Japanese annexation in 1910, the modern Korean nation-state did not actually come into existence until 1948 when the two Korean states were established separately. The discourses on the nation-state in Korea, however, proliferated in conjunction with various resistant social movements throughout the colonial period. This course seeks to explore how modern Korean literature imagined the ideal nation-state, while grappling with colonialism, the rise of modern capitalism, and the reconfiguration of gender relations. The three parts of the course respectively deal with (1) the discourse of enlightenment and the making of modern Korean literature, (2) the rise of modern capitalism and the proletarian literature, and (3) the imperial discourse and the wartime mobilization. The course readings actively incorporate adjacent materials such as films and history monographs, as well as Japanese writings for comparative perspectives. All required readings are in English translations; the Korean original texts will also be provided. Prerequisites: None.A beginning Tibetan class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect).This course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan. The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B or equivalent.This course is an introduction to the history, institutions, doctrines, and ritual practices of Buddhism in Tibet. The course will progress along two parallel tracks, one chronological and the other thematic, providing on the one hand a sense of the historical development of Tibetan Buddhism, and on the other a general overview of some central themes. Along the historical track, the course proceeds from Buddhism's initial arrival into Tibet through to the present day, with each week addressing another period in this history. At the same time, each week will focus on a given theme that relates to the historical period in question. Themes include tantric myth, 'treasure' (terma) revelation, hidden valleys, the Dalai Lamas, exile, and more. Prerequisites: None.Tibetan Buddhists view the moment of death as a rare opportunity for transformation. This course examines how Tibetans have used death and dying in the path to enlightenment. Readings will address how Tibetan funerary rituals work to assist the dying toward this end, and how Buddhist practitioners prepare for this crucial moment through tantric meditation, imaginative rehearsals, and explorations of the dream state. Prerequisites: None.This seminar will explore the doctrines of Chan Buddhism as reflected in the early Tibetan literature. The course will begin with the cig car ’jug pa chapter of the Bsam gtan mig sgrong by Gnubs chen sangs rgyas ye shes, with an eye for correspondences between that text and the Tibetan Chan collection preserved in the Dunhuang document Pelliot tibétain 116. Having gained some sense of how the Chan teachings were viewed by at least one central Tibetan author, we will proceed to delve more deeply into other Tibetan Chan documents from Dunhuang. At stake will be questions of how Chan meditation was understood by Tibetans of the ninth and tenth centuries, and how these traditions related to the contemporary practices of tantric Buddhism and early Dzokchen. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.The use of metaphor, metonymy, and other figurative schemas to frame one aspect of our experience in terms of another is a central feature not only of literary texts but of language use in general. Indeed, some have argued that thinking itself is an extremely complex process of analogy-making and figuration. In this class, we will look at how figurative language is used in Chinese literature by closely examining a series of selections from ancient philosophical texts, medieval poetry collections, and modern short stories. This class has two main components. First, we will practice reading, outlining, summarizing, and evaluating a wide range of secondary literature drawn from the disciplines of philosophy, anthropology, psychology, and linguistics on the semantic, cognitive, and cultural dimensions of figurative language. Second, we will use the conceptual vocabulary we have built up through our reading of these secondary sources to describe and analyze the use of figurative language in a variety of different kinds of texts drawn from both premodern and modern Chinese literature. The hope is that by putting these two kinds of sources in dialogue, we will both enrich our own experience of reading and writing about these texts and re-sensitize ourselves to the ways we use figurative language in our own writing. No previous knowledge of China, the Chinese language, or Chinese literature is required.How do we know what is funny? The experience of laughing at jokes, comedy films, cartoons, or even a satirical tale is a part of every day life, and yet notoriously difficult to write about analytically. At the same time, some types of social engagement and critique are only possible through comic culture, especially in eras of strict censorship. This course explores the theory of comic arts and the history of comic culture in modern East Asia, focusing on the second half of the 20th century. Each week will pair a primary literary text from Chinese cultures (continental China, Hong Kong, or Taiwan), Korean cultures (colonial, North and South), or Japanese cultures with a critical/analytical piece that both models strong academic writing and provides tools to analyze the comic presentation of the primary text. No previous knowledge of East Asian languages is required.  This seminar will look at some of the great works of contemporary East Asian cinema, featuring films that explore love, family and friendship through the manifold alignments of class, gender and sexuality.  Screenings will include classics like Iwai Shunji’s Love Letter and Wong Kar-wai’s In the Mood for Love, along with other contemporary works by Kawase Naomi, Ann Hui, Tsai Ming-liang, and Park Chang-Wook.Note: Enrollment is limited to 18 sophomores.This course will examine comparative responses to and representations of violent conflict. We will pay attention to how catastrophic events are productive of new forms of expression--oral, written, and visual--as well as destructive of familiar ones. We will examine the ways in which experience and its representation interact during and in the aftermath of extreme violence. Our empirical cases will be drawn from our research on responses to WWII atrocities, and on the post-Cold War civil wars in Africa.This course explores representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. This is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance.This course provides a forum for reading and discussing East Asia’s greatest and most iconic modern writers, Lu Xun. We will closely read Lu Xun’s major works , discuss his role in the reinvention of the Chinese language and literary tradition, explore the global literary and intellectual currents with which he was deeply engaged, as well as situating him within the tumultuous era of colonialism, modernization, and revolution. All readings will be available in English translation.Higher Learning begins with the study of heaven. As the source of orientation in space and time, heaven provides humanity the foundation for its knowledge and political order. To understand what knowledge is or how politics function, we need a basic understanding of the ways of heaven. This course examines the function heaven serves in the founding of order against the void in nature through the formation of conventional systems of time and space and the role heaven has played in the promulgation of governments. From a cross-cultural, interdisciplinary perspective that covers the course of Eurasian history and using primary sources in translation, we will see heaven unfold through the developments that leave us with the world we know today.This course examines the multiple ways in which the enormous upheavals of modernity have impacted Buddhism and the ways in which Buddhist institutions, beliefs, practices, and values have responded, with a focus on Japan. Because the end of World War II changed the political landscape in fundamental ways throughout Asia, most notably the end of colonialism, the course will be divided into two sections: 1800 to 1945, and 1945 to the present. The course will focus on the example of Japan because of the unusual rapidity with which Japan began an accelerated process of Westernization and globalization at the end of the nineteenth, earlier than any other Buddhist nation, the rise of nationalism as an anti-Buddhist force, and the way in which Japanese Buddhist thinking has recovered from that period. This course is a capstone experience that centers on the philosophies and religions of East Asia examined from multiple theoretical perspectives. It comprises several thematic units within which a short set of readings about theory are followed by chronologically arranged readings about East Asia. Themes will alternate from year to year but may include: ritual and performance studies; religion and evolution; definitions of religion and theories of its origins; and the role of sacrifice.Prerequisite: Preference will be given to majors, especially those with junior or senior standingThis course investigates the theoretical and historical contexts under which "futurity" has emerged as a key concept in the environmental humanities and social sciences.  Tracking the ways in which the concept has been made central to bio-political, ethical and neo-materialist articulations, we will be thinking about ideas of the future as they arise in concerns about surveillance technologies, securitization and risks, health and toxicity, reproduction, preservation and extinction, environmental disasters and global warming, mutant ecologies and multispecies attentiveness. We will first engage with a few theoretical works on futurity (Edelman, Muñoz, Berlant, Puar, and Kafer).  Moving across national boundaries, we will then explore new questions and possibilities these works and others have opened up for rethinking (and queering) relationships between nature and culture, humans and environment, agency, objects and networks.  Readings will likely include Bruno Latour, Kimura Shuhei, Timothy Choy, Donna Haraway, Anna Tsing, Shiho Satsuka, Karen Barad, Jane Bennet, Tim Morton, Eduardo Kohn, Maria Puig de la Bellacasa, Naoki Kasuga, Kath Weston, Brian Massumi, Joseph Masco, and Rob Nixon.This course is designed for non-heritage students who have absolutely no prior knowledge of the Korean language. Students will learn written and spoken Korean on self-related and day-to-day topics, and present information both in oral and written forms using formulaic and memorized expressions. They will also engage in simple conversational exchanges on a variety of daily topics.Prerequisites: NoneThis is a continuing course for non-heritage students who have completed K1A or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. Students will enhance and broaden their linguistic and cultural competence by learning more essential grammatical structures, daily life expressions and speech acts. The course is also intended to introduce certain cultural aspects through media sources and various activities.Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.This is a continuing course for Korean-American heritage students who have completed K1AX or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. More emphasis will be paid on reading and writing in order to establish their balanced four language skills. Students will enhance their linguistic competence by mastering essential grammatical structures and more elaborated daily expressions, as well as accompanying cultures.Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A survey of modern Korean literature and culture in the 20th century, focusing on the development of nationalist aesthetics in both North and South Korea. Topics include class and gender, urban culture, colonial modernity, war and trauma, and modernization. Texts to be examined include works of fiction, art, and film. All readings are in English.This is an intermediate course for non-heritage students who have completed K10A or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. Students will continue to improve their linguistic skills with the goal of becoming more proficient and fluent in daily and extended communication needs, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking. The course will introduce expressions, vocabularies, and complicated sentence structure and students are expected to carry on more sophisticated conversations on various topics beyond daily life.Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.This is a continuing course for Korean-American heritage students who have completed K1AX or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. More emphasis will be paid on reading and writing in order to establish their balanced four language skills. Students will enhance their linguistic competence by mastering essential grammatical structures and more elaborated daily expressions, as well as accompanying cultures.Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.This course is a continuation of K100A for non-heritage speakers. It will place more emphasis on listening and speaking through various authentic materials. Students will conduct individual projects on aspects where they intend to improve on. Various cultural aspects in addition to four-letter idiomatic expressions will be also covered.Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.This course is a continuation of K100AX for Korean-American heritage speakers. Students will be introduced to advanced-level Korean by reading authentic texts and writing short compositions, summaries, essays, and critical reviews. They will be encouraged to use advanced vocabulary and expressions including various idiomatic expressions. This course particularly emphasizes on heritage speakers’ speaking and writing competency.Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to help students acquire strong proficiency in reading and writing in Korean at the advanced level and deepen students’ knowledge of Korean culture and society through readings, film and discussion. The focus will be on understanding the society and history of Korea as well as acquiring advanced-level vocabulary and expressions. Through discussions and writing exercises students will be trained to speak and write clearly in a formal manner.Prerequisites: Korean 100B/BX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to help students acquire strong language proficiency in spoken and written Korean at the advanced-high (or superior) level required for academic research and in business or other professional fields. The focus will be on building advanced-level vocabulary that is useful in understanding and expressing their opinions on topics, such as social studies, politics, business, policy, and history. Students will gain knowledge in four-letter words, complex idiomatic expressions and proverbs that often appear on editorials, news discourse, and academic writings. Students will also learn skills in formal oral presentations and writing.Prerequisites: Korean 101/102; or consent of instructor.This course will examine the works of major poets in the first half of the 20th century and will consider the formation of modern Korean poetry. Particular attention will be given to the ideas of lyricism, modernism, and the identity of a poet in the context of the colonial occupation of Korea.Prerequisites: 100B or equivalentThis course aims to facilitate critical understanding of persistent themes and diverse styles of modern Korean literature through close readings of canonical works from the colonial period (1910-1945). It encourages students to develop broad comprehension of “post-colonial” characteristics of Korean literature. Concurrently, it explores how Korean literature aspired to the expression of the universal aesthetic values and judgment against the particularistic historical condition of colonialism.Prerequisites: Korean 100A; Korean 100AX; or equivalent (may be taken concurrently)This course offers a historical overview of Korean cinema from its colonial development to its present renaissance. It covers Korean film aesthetics, major directors, film movements, genre, censorship issues, and industrial transformation as well as global circulation and transnational reception. In an effort to read film as sociocultural texts, various topics will be discussed. All readings are in English.This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course develops beginning learners’ functional language ability—the ability to use Mandarin Chinese in linguistically and culturally appropriate ways at the beginning level. It helps students acquire communicative competence in Chinese while sensitizing them to the links between language and culture. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed specifically for heritage Chinese students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. The course utilizes students’ prior knowledge of listening and speaking skills to advance them to the intermediate Chinese proficiency level in one semester. Close attention is paid to meeting heritage students’ literacy needs in meaningful contexts while introducing a functional vocabulary and a systematic review of structures through culturally related topics. The Hanyu Pinyin (a Chinese Romanization system) and traditional/simplified characters are introduced. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.The course is designed for students who have had exposure to a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. The course helps students gain a fundamental knowledge about Mandarin Chinese and explore their Chinese heritage culture through language. Students learn ways and discourse strategies to express themselves and develop their linguistic and cultural awareness in order to function appropriately in Mandarin-speaking environments. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.The first in a two-semester sequence, introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early China through late medieval China, up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century); the course will also focus on the development of sound writing. Prerequisites: None.The course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course deals with lengthy conversations as well as narrative and descriptive texts in both simplified and traditional characters. It helps students to express themselves in speaking and writing on a range of topics and raises their awareness of the connection between language and culture to foster the development of communicative competence. Prerequistes: Chinese 1 or Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.The course takes students to a higher level of competence in Chinese language and culture and develops students’ critical linguistic and cultural awareness. It surveys social issues and values on more abstract topics in a changing China. Through the development of discourse and cultural knowledge in spoken and written Chinese, students learn to interpret subtle textual meanings in texts and contexts as well as reflect on the world and themselves and express themselves using a variety of genres. Prerequistes: Chinese 10 or Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.The course advances students’ linguistic and cultural competence through the development of critical literacy skills. It guides students to become more sophisticated language users equipped with linguistic, pragmatic, and textual knowledge in discussions, reading, writing, and translation. Students reflect on the world and themselves through the lens of the target language and culture and become more competent in operating between English and Chinese and between American culture and Chinese culture. Prerequisites: Chinese 10X; or consent of instructor.This course helps Chinese heritage language learners with a dialect background to further develop their Chinese language competence. More sophisticated linguistic forms are used with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese reading and writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10Y; or consent of instructor.The course is designed to further develop students’ advanced-mid level language proficiency and intercultural competence. It uses authentic readings on Chinese social, political, and journalistic issues, supplemented by newspaper articles. To develop students’ self-learning abilities and help them to link the target language to their real world experience, students’ agency in learning is promoted through critical reading and rewriting and through comparing linguistic and cultural differences. Prerequisties: Chinese 100B or Chinese 100XB; or consent of instructor.The first half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, introducing key features of grammar, syntax, and usage, along with the intensive study of a set of readings in the language. Readings are drawn from a variety of pre-Han and Han-Dynasty sources. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.This fast-paced course improves students’ abilities to use advanced language forms to read and discuss a wide range of abstract subjects and issues. This includes literature, philosophy, law, economics, history, cross-Strait relations, geography, and movie criticism. The course also develops students’ ability to read articles that contain both formal and informal and modern and classic Chinese usages. Students learn to identify and explain the classical Chinese allusions used in the articles and compare them to their modern counterparts. Students use the Chinese language in their fields of study and are directed to write a professional paper in their academic field. Prerequisites: Chinese 101 or Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.Chinese cities are the sites of complicated global/local interconnections as the nation is increasingly incorporated into the world system. Understanding Chinese cities is the key to analyzing the dramatic transformation of Chinese society and culture. This course is designed to teach students to think about Chinese cities in more textured ways. How are urban forms and urban spaces produced through processes of social, political, and ideological conflict? How are cities represented in literary, cinematic, and various popular cultures? How has our imagination of the city been shaped and how are these spatial discourses influencing the making of the cities of tomorrow?  Prerequisites: Chinese 100A, Chinese 100XA, Chinese 100YA (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This course introduces Chinese film auteurs since the late 1970s across the geopolitical divides between Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. We will focus on individual film auteurs (Jia Zhangke, Hou Hsiao-hsien, Wong Kar Wai, etc.) situated in distinct “new wave” movements in these three different regions, each in conversation with the global “new wave” cinema while engaging their respective political and cultural history. The class will combine inquiries of film style with pressing political and social issues facing contemporary Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Introducing major scholarship on contemporary Chinese language cinema, this class will investigate the assumptions and validity of the notion of “film auteur” as well as notions of New Wave cinema based on a European, particularly French model. We will end with a turn to popular cinema, by looking at how issues of genre and auteur suggest new possibilities of negotiations with the force of Hollywood and globalization. Prerequisites: None.This course introduces the history of traditional Chinese drama from the thirteenth to seventeenth centuries, covering important works from a wide range of genres (farcical, religious, detective, martial arts, historical, and romantic). We study Chinese theater in the context of pleasure precincts, ad hoc markets, ritual parades, and printed matter. The underlying questions we ask are: how did different kinds of spatial structure historically define performance? And how did these varied spatial configurations orient the relationship of the audience to the performance differently? And what general implications did the theatrical space have for the constitution of the self and for social formation in medieval and early modern China? Prerequisites: None.While there has been much discussion about the relationship between historical and fictional prose writing in premodern China, little attention has been paid to the role of “fantasy” and the “imagination” in the history of Chinese poetry. In a poetic tradition that grounds both the writing and the interpretation of lyric poetry in the poet’s particular experiences, there would seem to be little room for fancy. And yet, some of the most celebrated poets were given to uses of poetic language that, at the very least, challenged readers’ expectations of real-world referentiality.  After examining key relevant concepts in both Chinese and English, the class will engage in the intensive reading and discussion of a selection of poems (as well as poetic criticism), to interrogate the content, the function—and the limits—of fantasy and imagination as practiced at key moments in the history of Chinese poetry. Prerequisite: Graduate standing. This course will provide a basic understanding of the teachings and practices of Buddhism. The central issues will be situated within their broader Indian historical contexts, and the readings follow a generally chronological order. The course begins with the life of the Buddha, the early teachings, and the founding of the Buddhist monastic order. The course then progresses to the cosmological and philosophical developments of the Mahāyāna, followed by the ritual and mythological innovations of the Buddhist tantras. The final section takes a brief look at how Buddhism was assimilated into Tibetan culture. Prerequistes: None.This course will explore poetic translation, across languages, across cultures, and across historical ages, not merely from the perspective of the "accuracy" with which a classic text is represented in the translation, but as a window into the nature of poetic tradition and poetic writing itself. Works will be primarily drawn from the Chinese tradition, but in the interest of allowing a comparative discussion of the course's central themes, a significant amount of reading from ancient and modern Greek poetry will be included as well. The goal of the class is not simply to gain familiarity with Chinese poetry and poets, but more fundamentally to gain skill and sophistication in reading, responding to, and thinking about poetry. Prerequisites: None.Tea has a long and complex history in China and Japan. It has had a role in philosophical, religious, and literary discourse. It influenced, and was influenced by, visual arts, artisan endeavors, architecture, and social practices. This class considers the interaction of tea with arts, philosophy and poetics in premodern China and Japan. Broadly stated, we begin with the early tea origin myths of China then become more earnest in our analysis with events in the Tang and Song dynasties. While we cover briefly Yuan, Ming and Qing dynasties our focus swings towards Japan in the second half of the course where we look at tea practices in the Kamakura, Muromachi and early Edo periods. Comparing how tea was received in these two countries illuminates characteristics of both cultures and provides a unique example of how culture flows between them. Further, there is a dialectic between the ordinariness of brewing and drinking tea with the arts and philosophy and we therefore consider the cross-over of concepts (the movement of cultural “signs”), such as how yin-yang philosophy and the Chinese medical texts based on it created contexts for thinking about tea (Tang China) and how linked-verse poetics informed tea-related social practice (Muromachi Japan). Of necessity, this class devotes a certain amount of time to overview-level historical perspectives (era-specific economies, politics, religions) in both countries, geography, and, to properly situate the tea plant itself, we begin with the basics of tea’s origin and the evolving cultivation and leaf-crafting practices associated with the plant. Prerequisites: None.This course explores Chinese cultures of sex and gender from antiquity to the seventeenth century. We concentrate on three interconnected issues: women’s status, homoeroticism, and the human body. Our discussion will be informed by cross-cultural comparisons with ancient Greece, Renaissance England, and Contemporary America. In contrast to our modern regime of sexuality, which collapses all the three aforementioned issues into the issues of desire and identity intrinsic to the body, we will see how the early Chinese regime of sexual act evolved into the early modern regime of emotion that concerned less inherent identities than a media culture of life-style performance. Prerequisites: None.This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road.” Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion. All readings will be in English. Prerequisites: None.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic Japanese language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Students will learn the Japanese writing system: hiragana, katakana and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, students should be able to greet, invite, compare, and describe persons and things, activities, intensions, ability, experience, purposes, reasons, and wishes. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisites: None.Through lecture, discussion and essay, we read and analyze selections from premodern Japanese literature (poetry, prose and drama), especially via the consideration of cultural concepts (such as purity, exile), themes (such as rancor, shame) and aesthetics terms (such as sabi / "rustic beauty"). While this class focuses on literature, we do take some time to consider the visual arts, music and the formation of the tea ceremony. Students will be expected to master a range of factual and conceptual information as well as produce interesting and credible analysis on course topics. Learning outcomes: Students develop sophistication in reading premodern literary works, become versed in a range of cultural concepts that are important to the cultural history of the country and/or relevant to contemporary Japanese culture, obtain a good overview of some of the major historical events relevant to premodern Japanese culture, and hone their analytic writing skills. We read selections from a very wide range of literary texts, 10th to 18th centuries, but there is a considerable amount of visual information presented as well. Prerequisites: None.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; geography, speech style, technology, sports, food, and religion. Through the final project, students will learn how to discuss social issues and their potential solutions. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic linguistics knowledge they acquired in J1, as well as study new structures and vocabulary. An increasing amount of reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required. prerequisites: Japanese 1 or 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed specifically for heritage learners who possess high fluency in casual spoken Japanese but little reading and writing abilities. It introduces formal speech styles, reinforces grammatical accuracy, and improves reading and writing competencies through materials derived from various textual genres. Students will acquire the amounts of vocabulary, grammar, and kanji equivalent to those of Japan 10A and Japan 10B. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.This course will develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japanese 10 or 10B; or consent of instructor.Students develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills further to think critically, to express their points of view, and to understand Japanese culture and society in depth The readings are mainly articles on current social issues from Japanese newspapers, magazines, and professional books as sources of discussions. Students are required to write short essays on topics related to the reading materials. Prerequisites: Japan 100, 100B, or 100X; or consent of instructor.This course provides students an opportunity to develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills, thereby enabling them to express their points of view and to engage in argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include academic essays and other texts, which provide a variety of writing styles and serve as sources for classroom discussion. Also, Japanese films are used for various activities in order to broaden students’ cultural awareness and knowledge of Japanese society. Prerequisites: Japan 100, 100B, or 100X; or consent of instructor.A critical survey of the main themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism as they are treated in modern scholarship. The course covers the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism; the organization and function of Buddhist institutions (monastic and lay) in Japanese society; the interaction between Buddhism and other modes of religious belief and practice prevalent in Japan, notably those that go under the headings of "Shinto" and "folk religion." Prerequistes: None.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese, defined as the native literary language of the ninth to the fourteenth centuries. Four texts are read in whole or in part: 1) Hôjôki 2) Heike monogatari 3) Tsurezuregusa, and 4) Taketori monogatari. The emphasis is on grammatical explication and translation of the texts into English. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar, and translate into English. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Japanese in its wabun (aka bungo) and kanbun forms (including kakikudashi). The class will read samples from a variety of genres, including material written in China that are read in an idiosyncratic way in Japan. Reading materials may include Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, scriptural commentaries written in China and Korea, Japanese subcommentaries on influential Chinese and Korean commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiography, apologetics, histories, doctrinal letters, preaching texts, and setsuwa literature. This course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Japanese. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful but not required. Prerequisite: Japanese 120 (may be taken concurrently if you have also completed Japanese 100B); or consent of instructor.In J155 we read, in the original language, full-length modern Japanese short stories by highly regarded authors from the Meiji through Heisei periods. The stories for this class are selected based on two primary qualities: distinct contrasts in written style and inherent interest of theme. Learning focus: Since we read in the original Japanese, there are inevitably questions of vocabulary and grammar. Our primary activity, however, is considering how sentence structure, rhythm, pace, word choice and dialect support a work's success as a literary object. Since we read a large number of short stories, the overall structure of the course also functions as an introduction to a variety of Japanese authors of merit. Prerequisites: Completed or concurrent enrollment in J100A (as a minimum), or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics, historical changes, and genetic origins. Students are required to have intermediate knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: Japan 10, 10B or 10X.An overview of the concepts of theoretical, contrastive, and practical linguistics which form the basis for work in translation between Japanese and English through hands-on experience. Topics include translatability, various kinds of meaning, analysis of the text, process of translating, translation techniques, and theoretical background. Prerequisites: Japanese 100, 100B, or 100X; or consent of instructor.How does cinema convey meaning? How do the images and sounds of cinema shape the way we think about gender, about our place in the world, about who we are and where we came from, about what is possible for the future? When does cinema open up new imaginative possibilities, question long-held assumptions, and realize previously impossible dreams, and when—and how—can it push our emotional buttons to convince us to hold onto rigid and  limited frameworks of thinking? Taking up the case study of Japanese cinema, this course considers how cinema is shaped by social and cultural history, and how it in turn influences and transforms culture. Viewing these questions from outside the Hollywood mainstream affords a new perspective on the languages and contexts of film. We will raise these questions as we embark on a voyage through the twentieth century from the era of silent cinema to wartime cinema, through the New Wave cinema of the sixties and seventies and up to the present day of anime and digital media. Students will emerge with a grasp of the major trends and directors of Japanese cinema as well as knowledge of current directions in research and tools for critical thinking about cinema.You do not have to speak Japanese or know anything about Japan to take this course: all the films will have subtitles. Prior knowledge of the methods of film analysis will be helpful, but is not required. We will discuss all the concepts you need in class. Film showings (with a few exceptions) will be on Tuesday nights, every week, and attendance is required. Prerequisites: None.This course explores space, place, and architecture in Japanese literary texts written between the 1850 and the 1930s (by writers such as Sôseki, Ôgai, Doppo, Shusei, Shiki, Kafu, Rampo, Kawabata, Yokomitsu, Miyazawa Kenji, and Kon Wajiro), alongside photography, maps, and a broad range of theoretical writings on space and objects. Prerequisites: Graduate standing.This course is designed for students who have little or no prior knowledge of the Korean language. Students will learn the Korean alphabet and basic grammar. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed for students who already have elementary comprehension and speaking skills in Korean and have minimum exposure to reading and/or writing in Korean. Prerequisites: Consent of instuctor.A survey of pre-modern Korean literature and culture from the seventh century to the 19th century, focusing on the relation between literary texts and various aspects of performance tradition. Topics include literati culture, gender relations, humor, and material culture. Texts to be examined include ritual songs, sijo, kasa, p'ansori, prose narratives, art, and contemporary media representation of performance traditions. All readings are in English. Prerequisite: None.With equal attention given to speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural aspects of the language, students will further develop their language skills for handling various everyday situations. Prerequistes: Korean 1 or 1B; or consent of instructor.This is an intermediate course for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Students will elaborate their language skills for handling various everyday situations. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.This is a third-year course in modern Korean with emphasis on acquisition of advanced vocabulary and grammatical structure. Prerequisites: Korean 10BX; or consent of instructor.This is an advanced course of reading and textual literary analysis in Korean. Advanced reading and writing skills and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or 100BX: or consent of instructor.This course is designed to increase the students' proficiency to advanced-high (or superior for some students) level in all aspects of Korean. Texts and materials are drawn from authentic sources in various genres. Some will be selected according to student interests. Students will write research papers based on specialized topics of their choice and present them orally in class. Prerequisites: Korean 101 and 102; or consent of instructor.This course explores the formation and development of Korean Fiction during the colonial period (1910-1945) through key canonical texts and their thematic and stylistics features.  Its post-colonial approach is designed to facilitate critical understanding of the relationship between the literary representation and the problems and contradictions of the Japanese colonial rule. Course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).This course examines the development and transformation of Korean literature since the 1945 liberation to the present. In particular, it explores how Korean literature engaged, represented and thematized the tumultuous historical events and changes, such as literation, nation’s partition, Korean War, industrialization, democratizationetc. The course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).This course will explore the moments of intercultural encounters captured in Korean literature from the sixteenth through the twentieth century. Encounters with foreign cultures and literary reflections on them have emerged as prominent at critical moments of Korean history, such as periods of great social transition or international conflict. It is not a coincidence, in this regard, that many of the most important works of Korean literature have been produced in response to interactions with foreign cultures. In this course, we will be addressing questions concerning how experiences of the encounters of foreign cultures have been represented in Korean literature from the sixteenth through the twentieth century; what their domestic ramifications were, especially in terms of literary genres; and how the transformation of Korean national identity have been imagined and articulated in literary works. The reading list for includes travel writings, fictional war narratives, the records of Chosŏn officials’ diplomatic visits to Qing China of the Chosŏn period. In the latter half of the course, we will be reading representative modern fictional narratives that deal with the crucial issues of modernization, colonization, and the division of Korea, all of which were occurring against the complex background of international relations of modern East Asia. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.This course examines the formation and transformation of global Cold War culture in South Korean literature and film of the 20th century. It pays close attention to representations of the Korean War and its aftermath in literature and cinema, but opens up the field of inquiry to encompass larger sociocultural issues related to the Cold War system manifest in literature and cinema. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.A beginning Mongolian course dedicated to developing basics in listening, speaking, and reading Standard Khalkha Mongolian, writing in Cyrillic script, but with exposure to traditional script.The language of Mongolia is rich. It is the language of a people who politically have emerged on the world stage after verily hundreds of years of imposed isolation, who geographically live on the vast open steppe that ranges from the Gobi to Siberia, who economically juggle an ancient tradition of pastoral nomadism with the development of national and private industry, who culturally know an eclectic, vibrant cosmopolitanism belied by their rugged open spaces, and who long ago established the largest contiguous empire the world has ever known. The aim of this course is to make as much of this richness open to students as possible. To this end the course frames the study of Khalkha Mongolian, the standard language of Mongolia, in its context as a dialect of Mongolian language proper. It exercises the four basic language functions, speaking, listening, reading, and writing, with emphases on grammar, translation, pronunciation, and colloquial expression. And it shows deference in presenting the language to the cultural heritage that makes the Mongolian world unique.Prerequistes: None.A beginning Tibetan class developing basic listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The course also helps students begin to acquire competence in relevant Tibetan cultural issues. Prerequisites: None.This course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan. The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Prerequistes: Tibetan 1B; or consent of instructor.Anyone visiting Tibet will soon be struck by the number of inscriptions found carved into the rocks.  Most are Buddhist prayers and mantras, but others are of considerable historical significance.  This seminar will explore the Old Tibetan inscriptions found on rocks, steles, tablets, bells, and walls across Tibet.  Attention will be directed primarily toward reading the inscriptions themselves, but each will be supplemented by additional readings on early Tibetan history provide further context for understanding its larger significance.  Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course develops beginning learners’ functional language ability—the ability to use Mandarin Chinese in linguistically and culturally appropriate ways at the beginning level. It helps students acquire communicative competence in Chinese while sensitizing them to the links between language and culture. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed specifically for Mandarin heritage students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. The course utilizes students’ prior knowledge of listening and speaking skills to advance them to the intermediate Chinese proficiency level in one semester. Close attention is paid to meeting Mandarin heritage students’ literacy needs in meaningful contexts while introducing a functional vocabulary and a systematic review of structures through culturally related topics. The Hanyu Pinyin (a Chinese Romanization system) and traditional/simplified characters are introduced. Prerequisites: Consent of instructorThis course is designed for students who have had exposure to a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect but cannot speak Mandarin and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. The course helps students gain a fundamental knowledge about Mandarin Chinese and explore their Chinese heritage culture through language. Students learn ways and discourse strategies to express themselves and develop their linguistic and cultural awareness in order to function appropriately in Mandarin-speaking environments. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year-long sequence introducing students to the literature and culture of China, from the beginnings of Chinese civilization through the Song dynasty (960-1279).  Reading all works in English translation, we will pay particular attention to the rich tradition of thought and debate in China about the function and essential nature of language, writing, and poetry; and we will explore the evolving conceptions of representation that helped shape how literary works were produced, circulated, and interpreted. As students become acquainted with major authors and works of this long, formative period of Chinese history, they will have the opportunity to develop the reading, writing, and speaking skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with questions raised by those works. Prerequisites: None. No previous knowledge of Chinese literature, culture, or history is expected or assumed.  All readings are presented in English translation.  Students conversant in Classical Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible.  This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course deals with lengthy conversations as well as narrative and descriptive texts in both simplified and traditional characters. It helps students to express themselves in speaking and writing on a range of topics and raises their awareness of the connection between language and culture to foster the development of communicative competence. Prerequisites: Chinese 1 or Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course takes students to a higher level of competence in Chinese language and culture and develops students’ critical linguistic and cultural awareness. It surveys social issues and values on more abstract topics in a changing China. Through the development of discourse and cultural knowledge in spoken and written Chinese, students learn to interpret subtle textual meanings in texts and contexts as well as reflect on the world and themselves and express themselves using a variety of genres. Prerequisites: Chinese 10 or Chinese 10B; or consent of instructor.This course advances students’ linguistic and cultural competence through the development of critical literacy skills. It guides students to become more sophisticated language users equipped with linguistic, pragmatic, and textual knowledge in discussions, reading, writing, and translation. Students reflect on the world and themselves through the lens of the target language and culture and become more competent in operating between English and Chinese and between American culture and Chinese culture. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10X; or consent of instructor.This course helps Chinese heritage language learners with a dialect background to further develop their Chinese language competence. More sophisticated linguistic forms are used with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, discourses in speaking and writing, and different genres of Chinese reading and writing are introduced and practiced. Students learn to recognize a second version of Chinese characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10Y; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to further develop students’ advanced-mid level language proficiency and intercultural competence. It uses authentic readings on Chinese social, political, and journalistic issues, supplemented by newspaper articles. To develop students’ self-learning abilities and help them to link the target language to their real world experience, students’ agency in learning is promoted through critical reading and rewriting and through comparing linguistic and cultural differences. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or Chinese 100XB; or consent of instructor.This course is the first semester in a year-long sequence that introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese, also commonly known as "classical Chinese". During this semester, students will focus on reading excerpts from prose works of the Warring States period (fifth to third centuries BCE). The primary goal of the course is to develop reading skills in classical Chinese texts; at the same time, however, students will develop familiarity with some of the historical and cultural contexts in which these texts took shape. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.This fast-paced course improves students’ abilities to use advanced language forms to read and discuss a wide range of abstract subjects and issues. This includes literature, philosophy, law, economics, history, cross-Strait relations, geography, and movie criticism. The course also develops students’ ability to read articles that contain both formal and informal and modern and classic Chinese usages. Students learn to identify and explain the classical Chinese allusions used in the articles and compare them to their modern counterparts. Students use the Chinese language in their fields of study and are directed to write a professional paper in their academic field. Prerequisites: Chinese 101 or Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This course will introduce students to the development of Daoism, China's indigenous philosophical and religious tradition. We will look at texts that are central to the doctrines, concepts, and practices of the Daoist tradition, and will also read poetry, fiction, and historical writing from all periods of Chinese history to understand the impact of Daoism on Chinese culture as a whole. The course will conclude with a discussion of the reception of Daoism in contemporary American society. Because the course will emphasize cultural and historical context, we will also frequently refer to other traditions in Chinese history such as Buddhism and Confucianism, as well as to political and social history. Prerequisites: None.This course discusses Taiwan’s social and cultural transformation throughout its history of colonization, economic development, and democratization. Students are expected to gain a better understanding of Taiwanese history, literature, and culture, new skills in the reading and analysis of textual and cultural artifacts, and the ability to rethink colonialism, nationalism, and resistance in the era of globalization. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A/100XA (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.Modern Chinese literature was, from the very start, a revolutionary project. In reinventing the Chinese language, 20th century writers such as Lu Xun attempted to fundamentally rewrite Chinese social and political realities. It was also a pedagogical project: instructing readers not only about how to be "Chinese" in a time of imperial incursion and political turmoil, but how to be "modern" in all aspects of their lives, from growing up, to falling in love, to changing the world, to dying. To a shocking degree, the project succeeded. In this course, we will explore the historical world out of which modern Chinese literature emerged; and how this linguistic revolution helped to produce modern China, focusing in particular on the problems of gender, youth, and social marginality. We will read short stories and essays in Chinese by many of the greatest writers and public intellectuals of the twentieth century, including Lu Xun, Shen Congwen, Ding Ling, and Eileen Chang. We will also watch and analyze a select group of cinematic masterworks from the same period. We will conclude the semester with a set of stories and films produced in the aftermath of war and the communist revolution of 1949 that reveal the continuing resonance, as well as showing the tragic limits of this project's utopian aspirations, and perhaps even questioning the coherence of "China" and "Chineseness" as its organizing principle. Prerequisites: Much of the reading in the course will be in the original Chinese texts. Good reading knowledge of modern Chinese, or at the very least, concurrent enrollment in Chinese 100B is thus a requirement for admission to the course. Prior college level work in literature is also helpful.This course introduces Chinese film auteurs since the late 1970s across the geopolitical divides between Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. We will focus on individual film auteurs (Jia Zhangke, Hou Hsiao-hsien, Wong Kar Wai, etc.) situated in distinct “new wave” movements in these three different regions, each in conversation with the global “new wave” cinema while engaging their respective political and cultural history. The class will combine inquiries of film style with pressing political and social issues facing contemporary Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Introducing major scholarship on contemporary Chinese language cinema, this class will investigate the assumptions and validity of the notion of “film auteur” as well as notions of New Wave cinema based on a European, particularly French model. We will end with a turn to popular cinema, by looking at how issues of genre and auteur suggest new possibilities of negotiations with the force of Hollywood and globalization. Prerequisites: None.This course examines the development of Confucianism in pre-modern China using a dialogical model that emphasizes its interactions with competing viewpoints. Particular attention will be paid to issues of ritual, human nature and morality, stressing the way that varieties of Confucianism were rooted in more general theories of value. Prerequisites: None.This course examines gui 鬼 from early accounts like the Mozi 墨子 and Shanghai Museum bamboo slip texts “Guishen zhi ming” 鬼神之明 and “Fan wu liu xing” 凡物流形, through Han period ritual works, protective talismans and gui-quelling texts, and Wang Chong’s 王充 famous critique of the idea that gui have consciousness. What is the relationship between gui and other denizens of the spirit world? When do gui play the role of divine punishers of bad actions, when do they provide assurance of postmortem continuity, and are there other religious, cultural or psychological functions they fulfilled in Early China? As we read these texts we will also pay attention to contemporaneous accounts of demons in Europe, and also draw comparisons to later portrayals of gui in East Asia. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and reading knowledge of Chinese.Du Fu 杜甫 (712–770) was virtually unknown as a poet during his own lifetime, only gradually gaining reputation during the final century of so of the Tang dynasty. From the consolidation of his reputation during the eleventh onward, however, he gained the status of an emblem of the entire project of poetic writing: implicitly or explicitly, his iconic status in regard to the tradition of classical poetry was likened to the status of Confucius in relation to the legacy of the classics themselves. From our perspective, this makes Du Fu a very productive focal point for exploring the world of poetic writing and poetic criticism from the late Tang through Qing dynasties. The commentarial and critical tradition, as well as the tradition of composition of imitations and response texts, is of unparalleled richness, encompassing both some of the most sophisticated reflections on the historicity of expression and understanding as well as a vast array of middle- and low-brow “how-to” texts. The readings will be arranged in broadly chronological fashion, though the aim of the course is less to document the twists and turns of a history of reception than it is to gain conversancy with the multifarious kinds of reading and writing that formed around this iconic literary collection. Along the way we may also expect to enrich our own conceptual and technical resources for reading and responding to Du Fu’s work. This seminar will take the form of a workshop in the close reading of literary, musical, and cinematic texts. In particular, we will track specific formal qualities and their aesthetic effects across divergent media (print, recorded sound, and cinema) with an eye toward examining what makes for medium specificity, and what does or does not translate across divergent artistic practices and platforms. The qualities we will consider may include color, tone, and timbre; meter and rhythm; composition (plot, melody, motif); duration and brevity; volume and intensity; texture; and space. Through matched methodological and theoretical readings, we will work to develop, deepen, and refine our critical vocabulary. How can we approach these texts more closely, describe them accurately and vividly, and write about them with style, subtlety, and insight?  Primary texts, driven in large part by student interests, will include a wide variety of fiction, poetry, films, and sound recordings from modern and contemporary China and Taiwan. While the seminar will not focus on any one particular period, thematic question, or theoretical tendency, we will explore the extent to which an insistent, proximate, and supple attention to form might open up new methodological possibilities, enable productive dialogue between literary, sound, and cinema studies, and enlarge our sense of the complexity of historical moment out of which the texts emerged. Prerequisites: Graduate standing or the approval of the instructor.This is an introduction to the history, philosophy, ritual, visual culture, and social institutions of Buddhism across Asia. Rather than being a survey, the course is designed around key themes such as the cultural background from which Buddhism emerged, early Buddhist doctrine, monasticism, ritual and image veneration, meditation and mysticism, and death. The course will begin in South Asia and move east to Southeast Asia, China, Tibet, and Japan, at the same time as we move (in a meandering fashion) from ancient times down to the present day. Readings cover a wide variety of primary and secondary materials, including contemporary novels, and we will make use of documentary films and videos. Prerequisites: None.This course will discuss the social, economic, and cultural aspects of Buddhism as it moved along the ancient Eurasian trading network referred to as the “Silk Road.” Instead of relying solely on textual sources, the course will focus on material culture as it offers evidence concerning the spread of Buddhism. Through an examination of the Buddhist archaeological remains of the Silk Road, the course will address specific topics, such as the symbiotic relationship between Buddhism and commerce; doctrinal divergence; ideological shifts in the iconography of the Buddha; patronage (royal, religious and lay); Buddhism and political power; and art and conversion. All readings will be in English. Prerequisites: None.Archaeology of East Asia. The goal of this course is to provide a general picture of prehistoric and protohistoric archaeology in China, Japan and Korea. The course will emphasize the differences and similarities in archaeological studies between East Asia and North America. It will also consider the role of archaeology in East Asian societies today, and discuss how archaeological interpretations have been affected by the social and political contexts in these countries. Topics to be emphasized include changes in subsistence-settlement systems, origins and dispersal of food production, the development of social complexity, and the formation of state. Prerequisites:  None.This course introduces incoming graduate students to literary and cultural theory and criticism. The goal is not to provide a comprehensive overview, but to develop the tools needed to understand and responsibly assume our specific and evolving positions regarding our chosen materials, be they ancient or modern, Chinese or Japanese.  The intensive reading and discussion of critical texts will be grounded in the students’ work as scholars of East Asian languages and cultures, and will try to address some of the following questions: How do these diverse interpretive modes intersect with East Asian cultural, literary, and visual studies? What sorts of new questions and ways of seeing do they enable or elide? Are there particular problems or practices to which we, as students of East Asian languages and cultures in the US academic context, need to attend? What are our archives, and what should we “do” with them? How do our encounters with primary texts ‘translate’ into academic work? Prerequisites: This course is required of first-year graduate students in EALC. The seminar is also open to interested graduate students in Asian Studies, as well as those in History, Comparative Literature, History of Art, Linguistics, Anthropology, Rhetoric, and related fields, who plan to focus on East Asian materials. The instructors will be joined by Visiting Scholar Jan Nattier, and there will be an intensive weekend workshop with Jan at some point in the semester. The course may be taken for 2 or 4 credits.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic Japanese language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Students will learn the Japanese writing system: hiragana, katakana and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, students should be able to greet, invite, compare, and describe persons and things, activities, intensions, ability, experience, purposes, reasons, and wishes. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisites: None.We read and analyze selections from premodern Japanese literature (poetry, prose and drama), especially via a consideration of cultural concepts (such as purity) and aesthetic terms (such as sabi). While this class focuses on literature, we often find time to consider the visual arts, music, and the formation of the tea ceremony. Students will be expected to master a range of factual and conceptual information as well as produce interesting and credible analysis on course topics via written assignments. Teaching methods: While there are some lectures, most of the factual information and interpretive content is delivered outside the classroom via online lectures and assigned readings. For some, this approach increases the amount of non-class time needed to do well in the course. Learning outcomes: Students develop sophistication in reading premodern literary works, become versed in a range of cultural concepts that are important to the cultural history of the country and/or relevant to contemporary Japanese culture, obtain a good overview of some of the major historical events relevant to premodern Japanese culture, and hone their analytic writing skills. Prerequisites: None.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; geography, speech style, technology, sports, food, and religion. Through the final project, students will learn how to discuss social issues and their potential solutions. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic linguistics knowledge they acquired in J1, as well as study new structures and vocabulary. An increasing amount of reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required. prerequisites: Japanese 1 or 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed specifically for heritage learners who possess high fluency in casual spoken Japanese but little reading and writing abilities. It introduces formal speech styles, reinforces grammatical accuracy, and improves reading and writing competencies through materials derived from various textual genres. Students will acquire the amounts of vocabulary, grammar, and kanji equivalent to those of Japan 10A and Japan 10B. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.This course will develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japanese 10 or 10B; or consent of instructor.This course provides students an opportunity to develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills, thereby enabling them to express their points of view and to engage in argumentative discourse. In addition to Japanese literature, readings include academic essays and other texts, which provide a variety of writing styles and serve as sources for classroom discussion. Also, Japanese films are used for various activities in order to broaden students’ cultural awareness and knowledge of Japanese society. Prerequisites: Japan 100, 100B, or 100X; or consent of instructor.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese, defined as the native literary language of the ninth to the fourteenth centuries. Four texts are read in whole or in part: 1) Hôjôki 2) Heike monogatari 3) Tsurezuregusa, and 4) Taketori monogatari. The emphasis is on grammatical explication and translation of the texts into English. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar, and translate into English. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This class provides an opportunity to read and discuss the central ideas that Nobel laureate Ōe Kenzaburō 大江健三郎 (1935–   ) has been developing across his writing career. Although we also read his essays, the focus is on his short stories and novels, beginning with early days of his writing in 1957. We will pay close attention to how his concepts have developed over time. Ōe's works are often structured around other philosophers, poets, or novelists. One basic principle of this course is to follow him in his exploration and interpretation of such individuals and so this class includes readings about and by writers who had the greatest impact on him. While there are many, they include Rabelais, Faulkner, Blake, O'Connor and Sendak. Teaching methods: This class is built around close readings of Ōe works (both in English translation and in the original Japanese), sharing our thoughts on them via online resources, and discussing them carefully in class. It is, essentially, a seminar-style class founded on substantial reading. Learning outcomes: Students will become expert in the primary works that comprise Ōe's oeuvre and the themes therein. In particular, Ōe's son is disabled in a way that limits his verbal communicative skills. Ōe explores this through narratives that question the possibility of developing a truthful or accurate understanding of the private thoughts of those one loves. Students will have been introduced to, or have had the opportunity to revisit, important thinkers and artists of Europe, America and Korea. Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in J100A or its equivalent; or permission by the instructor.Urami (rancor, resentment) has an enduring presence in Japanese literature. Figures overburdened with urami become demons, vengeful ghosts or other transformed, dangerous, scheming characters. They appear in many different genre and eras. We read in translation a wide variety of lively Japanese literary texts (legends, Noh plays, ghost stories, Kabuki, etc.), most quite short, from the 11th century up to the present. The course's topic enables discussion on concepts important for understanding Japanese literary works such as hyper-attentiveness to shifting social status, the role of groupness in targeting victims, the imperatives of shame, secrets, the circumscribed agency of women, and the reach of Buddhist teachings into behavioral norms. For those interested in comparative literature, the course offers an opportunity to take a measure of what Japanese narratives offer as legitimate causes of rancor and revenge. Teaching methods: While there are some lectures, most of the factual information and interpretive content is delivered outside the classroom via online lectures and assigned readings. Further, short assignments become the basis for in-class discussions. For many, this approach increases the amount of non-class time needed to do well in the course. Learning outcomes: Students will acquire knowledge of the basic theories of folklorist Hayao Kawai and psychoanalyst Takeo Doi. They will have encountered a wide range of literary prose genre from premodern Japan.  And, as the core knowledge, they will have developed sophisticated understanding of the structure of urami as it is represented via literary narrative. Prerequisites: None.The course considers the different literary, social and ethical formations that arise or are destroyed in disaster. It explores how Japanese literature and media, before and after 3:11, attempt to translate the un-representable, and in so doing, to create a new type of literacy about 1) trauma and the temporality of disaster, 2) precarity, community and the public sphere and 3) sustainability and ecological scale. The course will pay particular attention to a range of works that explicitly or obliquely reframe iconic or popular representations of disasters in cinema, literature and other media, taking into account of the readiness with which certain cultural forms lend themselves to vistas of disaster. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed for students who have little or no prior knowledge of the Korean language. Students will learn the Korean alphabet and basic grammar. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed for students who already have elementary comprehension and speaking skills in Korean and have minimum exposure to reading and/or writing in Korean. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.This course provides an overview of pre-modern Korean literature and cultural history, from the beginning to the late nineteenth century. Readings include the works of major poets, fiction, narratives from the oral tradition, memoirs, historical documents, and some modern scholarship on pre-modern Korean social history and culture. We will also examine the visual and material culture, performance tradition, as well as modern media representation of premodern culture and tradition. This course does not assume any previous exposure to Korean language, literature, or history. All readings are in English.  Prerequisite: None. With equal attention given to speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural aspects of the language, students will further develop their language skills for handling various everyday situations. Prerequisites: Korean 1 or 1B; or consent of instructor.This is an intermediate course for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Students will elaborate their language skills for handling various everyday situations. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.This is a third-year course in modern Korean with emphasis on acquisition of advanced vocabulary and grammatical structure. Equal attention will be given to all four language skills: speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Prerequisites: Korean 10 or 10B; or consent of instructor.This is a third-year course in modern Korean with emphasis on acquisition of advanced vocabulary and grammatical structure. Prerequisites: Korean 10BX; or consent of instructor.This is an advanced course of reading and textual literary analysis in Korean. Advanced reading and writing skills and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or 100BX: or consent of instructor.This course is designed to increase the students' proficiency to advanced-high (or superior for some students) level in all aspects of Korean. Texts and materials are drawn from authentic sources in various genres. Some will be selected according to student interests. Students will write research papers based on specialized topics of their choice and present them orally in class. Prerequisites: Korean 101 and 102; or consent of instructor.This course explores the formation and development of Korean Fiction during the colonial period (1910-1945) through key canonical texts and their thematic and stylistics features.  Its post-colonial approach is designed to facilitate critical understanding of the relationship between the literary representation and the problems and contradictions of the Japanese colonial rule. Course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).This course examines the development and transformation of Korean literature since the 1945 liberation to the present. In particular, it explores how Korean literature engaged, represented and thematized the tumultuous historical events and changes, such as literation, nation’s partition, Korean War, industrialization, democratizationetc. The course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).This course examines the formation and transformation of Cold War system and culture in South Korea in the 20th century.  It pays close attention to representations of the Korean War, its aftermaths and the division system in literature and cinema of South Korea.  It explores the complex socio-cultural issues related to the Cold War system which structures and conditions the cultural production and practices.  The course helps students to develop critical understanding towards the cultural repercussions of the bipolar global order in both Koreas.   All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.This course is the first in a two-year curriculum in Khalkha Mongolian, the standard language of Mongolia. As is common to language study at any level, it exercises the four basic language functions, speaking, listening, reading, and writing. As a course for beginners, it introduces students to the Mongolian Cyrillic alphabet, Mongolian phonology, and grammar. As given by the inherent difficulties to the Mongolian system, special emphasis is paid to spelling. Prerequisites: None.This course introduces students to Literary Mongolian, its phonetics, grammar, vertical writing system and its relation to living spoken language. The course emphasizes reading texts in the Mongol vertical script. As foundation, students receive a basic introduction to Mongolian phonology and grammar as well as learn the Mongol vertical script writing system and a standard system of transcription. After a brief period of introduction students immerse in reading texts. Class time is devoted to reading comprehension, translation, and analysis. Although texts may be drawn to suit student interest, the standard course repertoire will consist of works of Mongolian Buddhist literature and history. Prerequisites: None.A beginning Tibetan class developing basic listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The course also helps students begin to acquire competence in relevant Tibetan cultural issues. Prerequisites: None.This course is an intensive introduction to reading literary Tibetan literature. Following an introduction to basic grammar, the course moves quickly into selected readings from Buddhist texts in Tibetan. It typically builds on basic skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), though with consent it may be taken independently.In this class we will explore 1) traditional Tibetan Buddhism in a village setting; 2) classical formulations of Buddhist philosophy and contemplation; and 3) educational practices in the Tibetan equivalent to elite universities; and 4) the Dalai Lama's efforts to forge a Buddhist-inspired modern Tibetan society and current events in Tibet. This class has a strong anthropological emphasis and explores the doctrines and rituals as they are found "on the ground" in actual Tibetan Buddhist communities. Guiding questions of the class are: How does the doctrine of karma influence social organization and personal behavior in Tibet? In what ways do villagers and monastics resist Buddhist dictates on their behavior? What is the role of the lama in Tibetan society? What are the ideals and practices of Buddhist education in Tibetan monasteries? What are some contemporary leaders of Tibetan Buddhism doing to adapt the religion to the "modern age?" Furthermore, the class will also look closely at the current wave religious nationalism in Tibet, including the wave of self-immolations that began in 2011 and continues to this day. Prerequisites: None.For over a hundred years, the political status of Tibet has commanded a level of attention on the international stage – and within China – seemingly disproportionate to the size of its population and economy, and in spite of its reputation as a remote periphery. This course will examine the historical, cultural, and economic assumptions underlying contemporary discourses of Tibetan politics, and relate them to discourses of global power and peripheries more generally. Grounding discussion in primary sources and critical works from across regions and disciplines, we will examine the roots of current conflict and the ways in which contending Buddhist, nationalist and internationalist projects have contributed to the making of modern Tibet. This seminar will explore what the Tibetan manuscripts from Dunhuang can tell us about tantric Buddhism in India around the eighth century C.E.  For this reason, our focus will be on those manuscripts containing texts that are likely based on translations from Indic sādhanas.  Readings will focus on the original manuscripts, beginning with the Yoga-tantra system of the Saravatathāgata-tattvasaṃgraha, then move on to the Mahāyoga systems of the Guhyagarbha- and Guhyasamāja- tantras.  These primary sources will be supplemented by secondary readings of western scholarship on these same ritual systems.  Attention will also be paid to how Tibetans assimilated these systems in the ninth and tenth centuries.  Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.Chinese 7A is the first semester in a year-long sequence introducing students to the literature and culture of China, from the beginnings of Chinese civilization through the Song dynasty (960-1279).  Reading all works in English translation, we will pay particular attention to the rich tradition of thought and debate in China about the function and essential nature of language, writing, and poetry; and we will explore the evolving conceptions of representation that helped shape how literary works were produced, circulated, and interpreted. As students become acquainted with major authors and works of this long, formative period of Chinese history, they will have the opportunity to develop the reading, writing, and speaking skills needed to engage critically and imaginatively with questions raised by those works. Prerequisites: None. No previous knowledge of Chinese literature, culture, or history is expected or assumed.  All readings are presented in English translation.  Students conversant in Classical Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible.  This course examines the complex worldviews of China’s Han period, the centuries that follow its unification and the establishment of its empire. The momentous changes of this period shaped traditional and contemporary views of history and society, philosophy, and religion, and as a result are still relevant today. This course will look at Han “thought,” a word chosen for its range, including religion, state ritual, social conventions, moral philosophy, and thinking about the natural world. It covers both elite and popular culture, and pays particular attention to two works of the second century B.C.E.: the Shiji (i.e., Records of the Historian) or the Huainanzi. Prerequisite: None.This course is the first semester in a year-long sequence that introduces the basic grammatical structures and core vocabulary of literary Chinese, also commonly known as "classical Chinese". During this semester, students will focus on reading excerpts from prose works of the Warring States period (fifth to third centuries BCE). The primary goal of the course is to develop reading skills in classical Chinese texts; at the same time, however, students will develop familiarity with some of the historical and cultural contexts in which these texts took shape. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended.Early Chinese biographical traditions established lasting narrative formulas for the commemoration of exceptional figures, and reflect persistent concern with fundamental problems both of human ethics and of the possibility of understanding human character. Gaining familiarity with representative examples from these early traditions provides a perspective for deeper understanding both of later literature and of some of the recurrent features of the biographical imagination in Chinese tradition. The aims of this course include both developing skills in reading various types of biographical prose in the original and developing critical and analytical skills in developing our own interpretive and comparative ideas in dialogue with source texts. Prerequiste: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.Chinese cities are the sites of complicated global/local interconnections as the nation is increasingly incorporated into the world system. Understanding Chinese cities is the key to analyzing the dramatic transformation of Chinese society and culture. This course is designed to teach students to think about Chinese cities in more textured ways. How are urban forms and urban spaces produced through processes of social, political, and ideological conflict? How are cities represented in literary, cinematic, and various popular cultures? How has our imagination of the city been shaped and how are these spatial discourses influencing the making of the cities of tomorrow?  Prerequisites: Chinese 100A, Chinese 100XA, Chinese 100YA (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This course introduces Chinese film auteurs since the late 1970s across the geopolitical divides between Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. We will focus on individual film auteurs (Jia Zhangke, Hou Hsiao-hsien, Wong Kar Wai, etc.) situated in distinct “new wave” movements in these three different regions, each in conversation with the global “new wave” cinema while engaging their respective political and cultural history. The class will combine inquiries of film style with pressing political and social issues facing contemporary Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Introducing major scholarship on contemporary Chinese language cinema, this class will investigate the assumptions and validity of the notion of “film auteur” as well as notions of New Wave cinema based on a European, particularly French model. This course introduces the history of traditional Chinese drama from the thirteenth to seventeenth centuries, covering important works from a wide range of genres (farcical, religious, detective, martial arts, historical, and romantic). We study Chinese theater in the context of pleasure precincts, ad hoc markets, ritual parades, and printed matter. The underlying questions we ask are: how did different kinds of spatial structure historically define performance? And how did these varied spatial configurations orient the relationship of the audience to the performance differently? And what general implications did the theatrical space have for the constitution of the self and for social formation in medieval and early modern China? Prerequisites: None.This semester we will be focusing on selections from the first fascicle of the Dasheng yi zhang 大乘義章 (T.1851: 44), an encyclopedic compilation by Jingying Huiyuan 淨影慧遠 (523-592) who is commonly (but somewhat misleadingly) associated with the southern branch of the Dilun 地論 school. Time permitting, we will focus on three sections: (1) the twelve-fold division of the canon, (2) buddha-nature, and (3) the two truths. We will couple our reading of the Dasheng yi zhang with secondary sources bearing on doctrinal controversies in sixth-century Chinese Buddhism.In this course, we examine Chinese paintings within the collection of the Berkeley Art Museum and read selected texts of the fiction and drama of the late-imperial period  to think about the potential structures of relation between interiority and the object. We will engage in private viewing of the paintings of Wen Zhengming, Shen Shi, Chen Guan, Sheng Maoye, Zhang Zheng and others.   Our questions might include:  How is a sense of interiority created or reinforced?  Where is interiority located? What, in fact, are we speaking about when we invoke either “interiority” or the “object”? How might the museum itself be a liminal space that could influence our understanding of such questions?  We will examine the “nonhuman turn” of recent posthumanist inquiry as well as the concern in the literature of the Ming and Qing regarding the confines and limitations of the notion of the “I.” With the instructors, students will curate an exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum to be mounted from February through April 2018.  The text of the wall labels and the program guide will be drawn from students'  journal entries and papers, and students will make decisions regarding the underlying logic of the exhibition.In recent years, both area studies and film studies have engaged in self-critical interrogations of what constitutes their field of study. Whereas “nation” as a naturalized category is increasingly challenged to address complex historical dynamic and political institutions that traverse national and regional borders, the notion of “medium” is equally destabilized in consideration of cinema’s historical interactions with a number of media. These critical reflections and efforts of deterroritization place “medium” and “area” in more productive encounter than previously subsuming one under another as a secure body of knowledge.The dynamic history of cinema's interaction with a number of media (radio, phonograph, architecture, photography, theater, etc) in China can be vividly witnessed when we delve into the rich archive available to us: the virtual archive online, the print reproduction of historical material, the historical films themselves, and the vast Paul Fonoroff Collection Berkeley recently acquired which includes historical film journals, press books, play bills, and other ephemera that we will closely examine. These range of archival material also testifies the multiple dialects and languages involved in the history of Chinese cinema, making the notions of "Chinese Language" or "Sinophone" cinema simultaneously useful and inadequate. The transregional and transnational traffic between Mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Southeast Asia, between Chinese, Hollywood, European, and other Asian Cinemas, between domestic and diasporic filmmaking and reception are equally visible in the materials we will examine. The class will sample a wide range of materials while devoting the discussions to a number of methodological issues concerning the questions of the archive, medium, form, technology in relation to coloniality, nationalism, and transnationality. Each week will organize discussions of these issues through a case study on film stardom, architecture, studio, film aesthetics, film theory and so on. We will participate in the international conference "Shadow History: Archive and Intermediality in Chinese Cinema" in October along with film screenings at PFA and exhibition at the Berkeley Film Archive. Students will be encouraged to develop research projects involving in-depth archival research.Introduction to the Study of Buddhism. This course will provide students with a basic understanding of the history, teachings, and practices of the Buddhist tradition. We will begin with a look at the Indian religious culture from which Buddhism emerged, and then move on to consider the life of the Buddha, the early teachings, the founding of the monastic order, and the development of Buddhist doctrinal systems. We will then turn to the rise of Mahāyāna Buddhism, and the transformation of Buddhism as it moved from India to China, Japan, Tibet and the countries of Southeast Asia. We will end with a brief look at contemporary controversies over (1) the tulku (reincarnate lama) system in Tibet; (2) the ordination of Buddhist nuns in Southeast Asia; and (3) the rise and popularity of mindfulness meditation in America. Readings will cover a variety of primary and secondary materials (including two novels), and we will make use of films and videos. Prerequiaites: None.The course will introduce students to narratives about illness, disease and healing written by patients, physicians, caretakers, and others.  These narratives report an experience.  They reveal the interactions between the unfolding life of the patient and the shifting social meanings attached to illness. We will study the relationships between illness and society through readings of fiction, memoir, films, essays and graphic novels in order to understand how these varied forms of storytelling organize and give meaning to crucial questions about embodiment, disability and forms of sociality enabled by our bodily vulnerabilities. Prerequisites: None.Comparative analysis of modern literature from China (including Hong Kong and Taiwan), Korea, and Japan with an emphasis on the short story and the novel. We will think about both the specificities of the literatures of the region as well as shared and interconnected experiences of modernity that broadly connect the cultures of East Asia during the twentieth century. Thematic concerns will include: modernism and modernity; nostalgia and homesickness; empire and its aftermath; and the cultures of globalization. Prerequisites: None.This course will discuss the historical development of the Pure Land school of East Asian Buddhism, the largest form of Buddhism practiced today in China and Japan. The curriculum is divided into India, China, and Japan sections, with the second half of the course focusing exclusively on Japan where this form of religious culture blossomed most dramatically, covering the ancient, medieval, and modern periods. The curriculum will begin with a reading of the core scriptures that form the basis of the belief system and then move into areas of cultural expression. The course will follow two basic trajectories over the centuries: doctrine/philosophy and culture/society. Prerequisites: None.This course is an introduction to archaeology of East Asia with emphases on the areas known today as China, Japan and Korea. The time periods covered in this course are from the migration of human ancestors (approximately 1 MYA) to proto-  traditions of East Asian countries and that of North America, examine the role of archaeology in contemporary East Asian societies, and discuss how archaeological interpretations have been influenced by contemporary social and political milieu. The topics highlighted in this course include: 1. changes in subsistence, 2. human-environment interactions, 3. origins of food production, 4. the development of social complexity, and 5. formation of states. These topics are discussed in relation to the various scientific analyses employed in contemporary archaeology. Prerequisite: None.This course investigates the protracted impact and aporia of the Cold War in Japan and Korea through an analytic understanding of a range of visual media works and films.  The Cold War period was a time of historical transformation and geopolitical reconfiguration in East Asia.  It saw the overthrow of political regimes, unprecedented capitalist expansion, and the emergence of new technologies that affected aesthetic production and consumption.  This course explores the multiple aspects of media culture (popular genres and the avant-garde), aesthetics, and politics that defined this period.  It will focus on, among other aspects, the colonial legacy, decolonization/de-imperialization, environmental discourse and body, archipelago and territoriality, authoritarian politics and everyday culture, and diaspora and national identity.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic Japanese language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Students will learn the Japanese writing system: hiragana, katakana and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, students should be able to greet, invite, compare, and describe persons and things, activities, intensions, ability, experience, purposes, reasons, and wishes. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisite: None.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; geography, speech style, technology, sports, food, and religion. Through the final project, students will learn how to discuss social issues and their potential solutions. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic linguistics knowledge they acquired in J1, as well as study new structures and vocabulary. An increasing amount of reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required. Prerequisite: Japanese 1 or Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed specifically for heritage learners who possess high fluency in casual spoken Japanese but little reading and writing abilities. It introduces formal speech styles, reinforces grammatical accuracy, and improves reading and writing competencies through materials derived from various textual genres. Students will acquire the amounts of vocabulary, grammar, and kanji equivalent to those of Japan 10A and Japan 10B. Prerequisite: Consent of instructor.This course will develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisie: Japanese 10 or Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor.Students develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills further to think critically, to express their points of view, and to understand Japanese culture and society in depth The readings are mainly articles on current social issues from Japanese newspapers, magazines, and professional books as sources of discussions. Students are required to write short essays on topics related to the reading materials. Prerequisite: Japanese 100B or Japanese 100X.Japanese 120 is an introduction to classical Japanese, defined as the native literary language of the ninth to the fourteenth centuries. Four texts are read in whole or in part: 1) Hôjôki 2) Heike monogatari 3) Tsurezuregusa, and 4) Taketori monogatari. The emphasis is on grammatical explication and translation of the texts into English. Most class meetings are devoted to the reading of the assigned texts. Students read the text aloud, answer questions regarding grammar, and translate into English. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the structure of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It focuses on phonetics/phonology, morphology, writing systems, dialects, lexicon, and syntax/semantics. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 10B or equivalent.An overview of the concepts of theoretical and contrastive linguistics which form the basis for translation between Japanese and English. By means of translating selected texts, students will acquire abilities to recognize common problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. . Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent.This will be a reading course in Chinese language texts written in China and Japan, with a focus tathāgatagarbha thought as expressed in the doctrine of buddha-nature as explained in the Nirvana Sutra (5th century), its impact on the teachings and practices of the Tiantai school in China, and the way in which this evolved into Tendai Pure Land thought and practice in Japan. For the Japanese side we will focus on the Ōjōyōshū (985) of Genshin, one of the few medieval Japanese works also studied in China. This course is designed for students who have little or no prior knowledge of the Korean language. Students will learn the Korean alphabet and basic grammar. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed for students who already have elementary comprehension and speaking skills in Korean and have minimum exposure to reading and/or writing in Korean. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.This course provides an overview of pre-modern Korean literature and cultural history, from the beginning to the late nineteenth century. Readings include the works of major poets, fiction, narratives from the oral tradition, memoirs, historical documents, and some modern scholarship on pre-modern Korean social history and culture. We will also examine the visual and material culture, performance tradition, as well as modern media representation of premodern culture and tradition. This course does not assume any previous exposure to Korean language, literature, or history. All readings are in English.  Prerequisite: None.With equal attention given to speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural aspects of the language, students will further develop their language skills for handling various everyday situations. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor.This is an intermediate course for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Students will elaborate their language skills for handling various everyday situations. Prerequisites: Korean 1BX; or consent of instructor.This is a third-year course in modern Korean with emphasis on acquisition of advanced vocabulary and grammatical structure. Equal attention will be given to all four language skills: speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Prerequisites: Korean 10B; or consent of instructor.This is a third-year course in modern Korean with emphasis on acquisition of advanced vocabulary and grammatical structure. Prerequisites: Korean 10BX; or consent of instructor.This is an advanced course of reading and textual literary analysis in Korean. Advanced reading and writing skills and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or Korean 100BX; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to increase the students' proficiency to advanced-high (or superior for some students) level in all aspects of Korean. Texts and materials are drawn from authentic sources in various genres. Some will be selected according to student interests. Students will write research papers based on specialized topics of their choice and present them orally in class. Prerequisites: Korean 101 or Korean 102; or consent of instructor.This course explores the formation and development of Korean Fiction during the colonial period (1910-1945) through key canonical texts and their thematic and stylistics features.  Its post-colonial approach is designed to facilitate critical understanding of the relationship between the literary representation and the problems and contradictions of the Japanese colonial rule. Course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).This course examines the development and transformation of Korean literature since the 1945 liberation to the present. In particular, it explores how Korean literature engaged, represented and thematized the tumultuous historical events and changes, such as literation, nation’s partition, Korean War, industrialization, democratizationetc. The course will be conducted in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean100A or equivalent (may be taken concurrently).This course introduces students to Literary Mongolian, its phonetics, grammar, vertical writing system and its relation to living spoken language. The course is dedicated to reading texts in the Mongol vertical script. As foundation, students learn the Mongol vertical script writing system and a standard system of transcription and receive a basic introduction to Mongolian phonology and grammar. After a brief period of introduction students immerse in reading texts. Class time is devoted to reading comprehension, translation, and analysis. Although texts may be drawn to suit student interest, the standard course repertoire consists of works of Mongolian Buddhist literature and history. Prerequisites: None.This course examines the modern history of Mongolia. Beginning with the Mongols' heritage as imperial nomads who uphold a dual custom, the Buddhist religion and the Manchu Qing dynastic state, it discusses how this order came to be threatened by, and ultimately dissolve under, political pressures imposed by governments espousing "modern" thought. The course focuses on how, navigating the political turmoil that ensued from the falls of the Russian Empire and Qing Dynasty, the Mongols were able to found a sovereign government of their own. Readings for the course are of primary sources in translation. Prerequisites: None.A beginning Tibetan class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). Prerequisite: None.This course is an intensive introduction to reading classical Tibetan literature. Following an introduction to basic grammar, the course moves quickly into selected readings from Buddhist texts in Tibetan. It typically builds on basic skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), though with consent it may be taken independently.This course is an introduction to the history, institutions, doctrines, and ritual practices of Buddhism in Tibet. The course will progress along two parallel tracks, one chronological and the other thematic, providing on the one hand a sense of the historical development of Tibetan Buddhism, and on the other a general overview of some central themes. Along the historical track, the course proceeds from Buddhism's initial arrival into Tibet through to the present day, with each week addressing another period in this history. At the same time, each week will focus on a given theme that relates to the historical period in question. Themes include tantric myth, 'treasure' (terma) revelation, hidden valleys, the Dalai Lamas, exile, and more. Prerequisites: None.This semester the course offers the reading of a wide range of topics within Tibetan Buddhist history. Based upon a number of key texts, the intriguing system of incarnation as presented by a number of the most prominent Buddhist schools will be analyzed and discussed. In medieval Tibet prophecies played a huge communicative role as a political and religious strategy, the topics will be addressed through the reading of a number of informative texts; further, the course will look at the some medieval historiographical texts recently traced in Tibet. This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course develops beginning learners’ functional language ability—the ability to use Mandarin Chinese in linguistically and culturally appropriate ways at the beginning level. It helps students acquire communicative competence in Chinese while sensitizing them to the links between language and culture. The Hanyu Pinyin (a Chinese Romanization system) and simplified characters are introduced.Note: For students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. All Chinese 1A students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course continues to focus on training students in the four language skills--speaking, listening, reading, and writing with a gradually increasing emphasis on basic cultural readings and developing intercultural competence.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1A. If you have not taken Chinese 1A, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 1B students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed specifically for Mandarin heritage students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. The course utilizes students’ prior knowledge of listening and speaking skills to advance them to the intermediate Chinese proficiency level in one semester. Close attention is paid to meeting Mandarin heritage students’ literacy needs in meaningful contexts while introducing a functional vocabulary and a systematic review of structures through culturally related topics. The Hanyu Pinyin (a Chinese Romanization system) and traditional/simplified characters are introduced.Note: For students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin (or Mandarin and another dialect) was spoken but possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese; or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.The second of a two-semester sequence introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. The course will focus on the development of sound writing skills.This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course deals with lengthy conversations as well as narrative and descriptive texts in both simplified and traditional characters. It helps students to express themselves in speaking and writing on a range of topics and raises their awareness of the connection between language and culture to foster the development of communicative competence.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1B. If you have not taken Chinese 1B, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 10A students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course continues to develop students’ literacy and communicative competence through vocabulary and structure expansion dealing with topics related to Chinese heritage students’ personal experiences. Students are guided to express themselves on complex issues and to connect their language knowledge with real world experiences.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1X. If you have not taken Chinese 1X, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class.This course helps students further develop their linguistic and cultural competence in Mandarin Chinese. It trains students to use Mandarin more appropriately and confidently in speaking, reading, and writing. With the expanded repertoire of Chinese language use and the increased awareness of the differences between cultures and subcultures, students are equipped to negotiate their way in an intercultural environment.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1Y. If you have not taken Chinese 1Y, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 10Y students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course continues the development of critical awareness by emphasizing the link between socio-cultural literacy and a higher level of language competence. While continuing to expand their critical literacy skills, students interpret texts related to Chinese popular culture, social change, cultural traditions, politics and history. Through linguistic and cultural comparisons, students understand more about people in the target society and themselves as well as about the power of language in language use to enhance their competence in operating between languages and associated cultures.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 100A. If you have not taken Chinese 100A, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 100B students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100XA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 100XA. If you have not taken Chinese 100XA, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class.This course is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100YA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 100YA. If you have not taken Chinese 100XA, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 100YB students are required to attend a weekly half-hour tutorial. The tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed to assist students to reach the advanced-mid level on language skills and to enhance their intercultural competence. Students read the works of famous Chinese writers. Movie adaptations of these writings are also used. In addition to reading and seeking out information, students experience readings by interpreting and constructing meanings and evaluate the effect of the language form choice.Prerequisites: Chinese 100B, 100XB, or 100YB. If you have not taken Chinese 100B, 100XB, or 100YB, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class.The second half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, continuing the topics from the first semester, and giving basic coverage of relevant issues in the history of the language and writing system. This course examines the canonical texts of the late-imperial period, placing them in the context of literary culture of the Ming-Qing. The course focuses on a different set of texts each time it is taught; the aim is to introduce students to the primary issues in scholarship of late-imperial fiction and drama over a period of several years.Prerequisite: Chinese 110AThis fast-paced course is designed to help the student reach an advanced-high competence level in all aspects of modern Chinese. It prepares students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Texts are selected according to the students’ interests. Under the instructor’s guidance, students conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. Research projects are presented both orally and in written form.Prerequisites: Chinese 101 and Chinese 102; or consent of instructorThis seminar provides an introduction to a broad range of Tibetan Buddhist texts, including chronicles and histories, biographical literature, doctrinal treatises, canonical texts, ritual manuals, pilgrimage guides, and liturgical texts. It is intended for graduate students interested in premodern Tibet from any perspective. Students are required to do all of the readings in the original classical Tibetan. It will also serve as a tools and methods for the study of Tibetan Buddhist literature, including standard lexical and bibliographic references, digital resources, and secondary literature in modern languages. In Spring 2018, the seminar focuses on 14th century Great Perfection (rdzogs chen) literature. In particular, we will read excerpts from Rindzin Godem's influential treasure revelation, The Unimpeded Realization of Samantabhadra (kun tu bzang po'i dgongs pa zang thel). Godem's revelation started the Northern Treasures (byang gter) tradition and contributed to the final synthesis of the Great Perfection. The five volumes of The Unimpeded Realization contain a large variety of literature, so we will read texts on Dzokchen contemplation, philosophy, narratives, tantras, severance practice (gcod), liberation through wearing (btags grol) and so forth. To support our understanding of the primary sources, we will read relevant literature in English and discuss it in class, but the main focus will be on reading Tibetan texts. This course explores popular, realist, and avant-garde literature from mainland China and Taiwan since 1949. We will consider how writers have engaged with the cultural dislocations of modernity by exploring questions such as the presentation of cultural and gender identities and the politics of memory and place. Central to our discussion will be the problem of how literature not only reflects but also critically engages with historical and cultural experience through a variety of genres. A crucial aspect of this course will be the development of skills in close, critical, and historically contextualized reading.Prerequisites: Chinese 100A or Chinese 100XA (may be taken concurrently)This course examines the development of Confucianism in pre-modern China using a dialogical model that emphasizes its interactions with competing viewpoints. Particular attention will be paid to ritual, conceptions of human nature, ethics, and to the way that varieties of Confucianism were rooted in more general theories of value.This seminar is an intensive introduction to various genres of Buddhist literature in classical Chinese, including translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian scriptures. Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiographies, and sectarian works. It is intended for graduate students who already have some facility in classical Chinese. It will also serve as a tools and methods course, covering the basic reference works and secondary scholarship in the field of East Asian Buddhism. The content of the course will be adjusted from semester to semester to best accommodate the needs and interests of students.Prerequisite: Consent of instructorThe period from the dissolution of the Eastern Han in the latter decades of the second century CE to the Sui unification in 581 witnessed the emergence of genres and discursive norms that were to become definitive for much of later tradition of elite writing, including a basic set of assumptions about the often complex relations between mastery of literary or philosophical disciplines and the exercise and projection of political or legitimacy and power. This seminar will be organized around a series of historical “nodes” (courts, salons, social cliques, or religious communities) that saw the rise of influential genres and discursive types, including the more or less definitive formulation of the principal genres of belletristic writing (much of which was also administrative/political in nature), the rise of new models of commentarial practice, a newly energized space of sectarian argument and polemic associated with the rise of organized Buddhist and Daoist communities, and the emerging systematization of the newly consolidated repertoire of literary genres as dimensions of a new language of imperial statecraft, forged particularly in the later “Northern” dynasty courts.Prerequisite: advanced reading ability in literary Chinese.This course examines the canonical texts of the late-imperial period, placing them in the context of literary culture of the Ming-Qing. The course focuses on a different set of texts each time it is taught; the aim is to introduce students to the primary issues in scholarship of late-imperial fiction and drama over a period of several years.This semester, we will study the issues of space and emotion in drama, fiction, and poetry throughout Chinese history, with the focus on the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries. The two issues are intertwined in the sense that emotion is reconceived not as an inner state of mind but as a spatio-ontological structure that has a history; conversely, such terms as space, time, and history will be understood anew through this spatiality of emotion. Covering literature, architecture, ritual practice, and intellectual discourse in antiquity to eighteenth-century in China, we pay special attention to the transformation from the ancient sphere of “winds” to medieval dreamscapes to early modern theatricality and sympathy. The goal is to chart an alternative history of Chinese philosophy, poetics, performance, and narrativity, explore diverse models of subject and community formation, and put on trial recent approaches of phenomenology, cognitive psychology, affect theory, and speculative realism."Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic Japanese language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Students will learn the Japanese writing system: hiragana, katakana and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, students should be able to greet, invite, compare, and describe persons and things, activities, intensions, ability, experience, purposes, reasons, and wishes. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Note: Enroll in Japanese 1A if you have minimal or no knowledge of Japanese.Japanese 1B is designed to develop basic skills acquired in Japanese 1A further. Students will learn approximately 150 new kanji. At the end of the course students should be able to express positive and negative requirements, chronological order of events, conditions, giving and receiving of objects and favors, and to ask and give advice. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisites: Japan 1A; or consent of instructor.An introduction to Japanese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. 7B provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the more advanced language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; pop-culture, traditional arts, education, convenient stores, haiku, and history. Through the final project, students will learn how to introduce their own cultures and their influences. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary they acquired in the previous semesters, as well as study new linguistic expressions. An increasing amount of more advanced reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required.Prerequisites: Japan 10A; or consent of instructor.Introduction to contemporary Japanese culture and society.  Various aspects of contemporary Japan will be explored through a readingof  basic scholarly works on Japan and watching popular films (in English).  Topics include popular culture and technology, family and gender matters, education and socialization, Japanese identity and diversity, fashion and tradition, globalization and localization.  Class conducted in English.This course aims to develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, essays, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japan 100A; or consent of instructor.This course helps heritage learners of Japanese who have completed 10X to develop further their linguistic and cultural competencies. More sophisticated linguistic forms are introduced and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, and different genres of Japanese reading and writing are practiced. The materials covered are equivalent to those of 100A-100B. Prerequisites: Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.This course provides students an opportunity to develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills in order to express their opinions in argumentative discourse. Students read and discuss a variety of Japanese texts to deepen their understanding of Japanese society and people and to improve their intercultural communicative competence.Prerequisites: Japan 100, Japan 100B, or Japan 100X; or consent of instructorThis course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Japanese in its wabun (aka bungo) and kanbun forms (including kakikudashi). The class will read samples from a variety of genres, including material written in China that are read in an idiosyncratic way in Japan. Reading materials will include Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, scriptural commentaries written in China and Korea, Japanese subcommentaries on influential Chinese and Korean commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiography, apologetics, histories, doctrinal letters, preaching texts, and setsuwa literature. This course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Japanese.Prerequisites: Japanese 120. One semester of classical Japanese. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful, but not requiredThis course will introduce students to the world of early modern Japanese travel writing through a close examination of Matsuo Bashō's 1702 Oku no hosomichi (Narrow Road to the Deep North).  We will read Bashō's poetic travel account in the original as well as look at how Bashō was influenced by earlier writers and how his work and life were understood during the eighteenth century.This course is an introduction to Japanese modernism through the reading and discussion of representative short stories, poetry, and criticism of the Taisho and early Showa periods. We will examine the aesthetic bases of modernist writing and confront the challenge posed by their use of poetic language. The question of literary form and the relationship between poetry and prose in the works will receive special attention.An overview of the concepts of theoretical, contrastive, and practical linguistics which form the basis for work in translation between Japanese and English through hands-on experience. Topics include translatability, various kinds of meaning, analysis of the text, process of translating, translation techniques, and theoretical background.Prerequisites: Japanese 100, Japanese 100B, or Japanese 100X; or equivalentThis course will examine the works of the novelist Murakami Haruki and the animator Miyazaki Hayao within the context of contemporary Japanese aesthetics and history. Both Murakami and Miyazaki debuted in 1979 and their work has very much defined Japan’s cultural experience from the tail end of the Era of High Growth Economics through the Bubble Era, the Lost Decade, and into the twenty-first century. Studentswill explore the works of these two figures in the context of the history of Japanese literature and film and its relation to larger political, social, and cultural trends of Japan from the 1980s to the present.The course considers the different literary, social and ethical formations that arise or are destroyed in disaster. It explores how Japanese literature and media, before and after 3:11, attempt to translate the un-representable, and in so doing, to create a new type of literacy about 1) trauma and the temporality of disaster, 2) precarity, community and the public sphere and 3) sustainability and ecological scale. The course will pay particular attention to a range of works that explicitly or obliquely reframe iconic or popular representations of disasters in cinema, literature and other media, taking into account of the readiness with which certain cultural forms lend themselves to vistas of disaster.Topics run from Japan's earliest extant poetic anthologies in Chinese (Kaifuso) or Japanese (Man'yoshu) to medieval linked verse (renga) and Edo haikai.Reading and critical evaluation of selected texts in postwar (roughly the 1940s through the present) Japanese literature and literary and cultural criticism. Texts change with each offering of the course.Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of instructorThis course is designed for non-heritage students who have absolutely no prior knowledge of the Korean language. Students will learn written and spoken Korean on self-related and day-to-day topics, and present information both in oral and written forms using formulaic and memorized expressions. They will also engage in simple conversational exchanges on a variety of daily topics.Prerequisites: NoneThis is a continuing course for non-heritage students who have completed K1A or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. Students will enhance and broaden their linguistic and cultural competence by learning more essential grammatical structures, daily life expressions and speech acts. The course is also intended to introduce certain cultural aspects through media sources and various activities.Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.This is a continuing course for Korean-American heritage students who have completed K1AX or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. More emphasis will be paid on reading and writing in order to establish their balanced four language skills. Students will enhance their linguistic competence by mastering essential grammatical structures and more elaborated daily expressions, as well as accompanying cultures.Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A survey of modern Korean literature and culture in the 20th century, focusing on the development of nationalist aesthetics in both North and South Korea. Topics include class and gender, urban culture, colonial modernity, war and trauma, and modernization. Texts to be examined include works of fiction, art, and film. All readings are in English.This is an intermediate course for non-heritage students who have completed K10A or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. Students will continue to improve their linguistic skills with the goal of becoming more proficient and fluent in daily and extended communication needs, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking. The course will introduce expressions, vocabularies, and complicated sentence structure and students are expected to carry on more sophisticated conversations on various topics beyond daily life.Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.This is a continuing course for Korean-American heritage students who have completed K1AX or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. More emphasis will be paid on reading and writing in order to establish their balanced four language skills. Students will enhance their linguistic competence by mastering essential grammatical structures and more elaborated daily expressions, as well as accompanying cultures.Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.This course is a continuation of K100A for non-heritage speakers. It will place more emphasis on listening and speaking through various authentic materials. Students will conduct individual projects on aspects where they intend to improve on. Various cultural aspects in addition to four-letter idiomatic expressions will be also covered.Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.This course is a continuation of K100AX for Korean-American heritage speakers. Students will be introduced to advanced-level Korean by reading authentic texts and writing short compositions, summaries, essays, and critical reviews. They will be encouraged to use advanced vocabulary and expressions including various idiomatic expressions. This course particularly emphasizes on heritage speakers’ speaking and writing competency.Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to help students acquire strong proficiency in reading and writing in Korean at the advanced level and deepen students’ knowledge of Korean culture and society through readings, film and discussion. The focus will be on understanding the society and history of Korea as well as acquiring advanced-level vocabulary and expressions. Through discussions and writing exercises students will be trained to speak and write clearly in a formal manner.Prerequisites: Korean 100B/BX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to help students acquire strong language proficiency in spoken and written Korean at the advanced-high (or superior) level required for academic research and in business or other professional fields. The focus will be on building advanced-level vocabulary that is useful in understanding and expressing their opinions on topics, such as social studies, politics, business, policy, and history. Students will gain knowledge in four-letter words, complex idiomatic expressions and proverbs that often appear on editorials, news discourse, and academic writings. Students will also learn skills in formal oral presentations and writing.Prerequisites: Korean 101/102; or consent of instructor.This course will examine the works of major poets in the first half of the 20th century and will consider the formation of modern Korean poetry. Particular attention will be given to the ideas of lyricism, modernism, and the identity of a poet in the context of the colonial occupation of Korea.Prerequisites: 100B or equivalentThis course aims to facilitate critical understanding of persistent themes and diverse styles of modern Korean literature through close readings of canonical works from the colonial period (1910-1945). It encourages students to develop broad comprehension of “post-colonial” characteristics of Korean literature. Concurrently, it explores how Korean literature aspired to the expression of the universal aesthetic values and judgment against the particularistic historical condition of colonialism.Prerequisites: Korean 100A; Korean 100AX; or equivalent (may be taken concurrently)This course offers a historical overview of Korean cinema from its colonial development to its present renaissance. It covers Korean film aesthetics, major directors, film movements, genre, censorship issues, and industrial transformation as well as global circulation and transnational reception. In an effort to read film as sociocultural texts, various topics will be discussed. All readings are in English.This course examines the Mongol Empire founded by Chinggis Khan. We will study the empire from the time its founding in 1206 until its decline in the mid-14th century. The greater extent of the course covers the matter of the Mongol conquest: military technologies, methods and strategies, logistics, and the events of specific battles and actions. These events are framed in the context of the Mongolian culture: its scientific, political, and economic systems and over-arching worldview. The course also covers what comes from the conquest in terms not only of destruction but what the Mongols make of the world they've won. Readings for the course are of primary sources in translation.This course covers the history of Mongolian Buddhism from its inception in the Yuan dynasty to the present. The importance of Mongolian Buddhism to the greater dharma lies not only with the ways of its priests but also with the means of its patrons, the Mongol aristocracy, in forging a distinctive tradition in Inner Asia and disseminating it throughout the world. While maintaining a historical thread throughout, this course will examine in detail some of the tradition’s many facets, including Mongolian-Buddhist politics, the politics of incarnation, the establishment of monasteries, economics, work in the sciences, astral science and medicine, ritual practice, literature, sculpture and painting, music and dance, and more.Also listed as BUDDSTD C117.A continuation of Tibetan 1A, Tibetan 1B develops further listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect), with a gradually increasing emphasis on basic cultural readings and developing intercultural competence.Prerequisite: Tibetan 1AA continuation of Tibetan 110A, this course provides an intensive introduction to a range of literary Tibetan literature. Assuming knowledge of basic literary Tibetan grammar, the course focuses on selected readings from Buddhist texts in Tibetan.Prerequisites: Tibetan 110A, or consent of instructor.This course seeks to develop a critical understanding of contemporary Tibet, characterized as it is by modernity, invasion, Maoism, liberalization, exile, and diaspora. It explores the cultural dynamism of the Tibetans over the last 100 years as expressed in literature, film, music, modern art, and political protest. The core topics include intra-Tibetan arguments regarding the preservation and "modernization" of traditional cultural forms, the development of new aesthetic creations and values, the constraints and opportunities on cultural life under colonialism and in the diaspora, and the religious nationalism of the recent political protests.This seminar provides an introduction to a broad range of Tibetan Buddhist texts, including chronicles and histories, biographical literature, doctrinal treatises, canonical texts, ritual manuals, pilgrimage guides, and liturgical texts. It is intended for graduate students interested in premodern Tibet from any perspective. Students are required to do all of the readings in the original classical Tibetan. It will also serve as a tools and methods for the study of Tibetan Buddhist literature, including standard lexical and bibliographic references, digital resources, and secondary literature in modern languages. In Spring 2018, the seminar focuses on 14th century Great Perfection (rdzogs chen) literature. In particular, we will read excerpts from Rindzin Godem's influential treasure revelation, The Unimpeded Realization of Samantabhadra (kun tu bzang po'i dgongs pa zang thel). Godem's revelation started the Northern Treasures (byang gter) tradition and contributed to the final synthesis of the Great Perfection. The five volumes of The Unimpeded Realization contain a large variety of literature, so we will read texts on Dzokchen contemplation, philosophy, narratives, tantras, severance practice (gcod), liberation through wearing (btags grol) and so forth. To support our understanding of the primary sources, we will read relevant literature in English and discuss it in class, but the main focus will be on reading Tibetan texts.Prerequisites: Consent of instructorThe Mogao cave complex, carved into a cliff facing the Daquan River in Gansu Province, China, comprises some seven hundred caves, over four hundred of which are lavishly decorated on the interior with wall paintings and polychrome sculptures. The site is approximately 25 kilometers from the town of Dunhuang, once an important economic and military center on the ancient Silk Road. Modern scholarship has made considerable headway in unraveling the artistic and iconographic program of the caves, as well as in deciphering the cache of manuscripts discovered in the now-famous Cave 17 library. In contrast, relatively little is known about why the caves were built and how were they used. This course will focus on the function of the caves, and on how specific theories concerning their use affect the way we understand their pictorial and sculptural decoration. We will begin with a comparative analysis of other ancient Buddhist cave sites, notably Ajanta, Kizil, Toyok, Yungang, and Longmen. We will then examine various hypotheses concerning the function of the Mogao caves that foreground the role of patronage, proselytization, monastic practice, meditation, mortuary ritual, and so on. Along the way we will look at methodological issues bearing on the relationship between form and function in religious art.The course is designed for graduate students with an interest in Asian art history, archaeology, or Buddhism. Facility in modern or literary Chinese is not necessary but will be helpful. Requirements include seminar presentations and a term paper.s. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B provides elementary training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese. It is designed to help you learn enough Chinese to enable you to handle your needs adequately in Chinese-speaking places or communities. Building upon Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B will further introduce a core vocabulary and fundamental structures. You will be able to describe person/thing/event/place/time/feeling, describe and comment on food, provide and obtain information about borrowing/renting and returning, ask for and give directions, accept and reject invitations, describe health problems and give advice, and compare different places, sports, and prices. You will learn how to understand Chinese well enough to carry out routine tasks and engage in simple conversations. In addition to further mastering the Pinyin Romanization system, you will learn how to read and write 320 new Chinese characters and compounds derived from combining these characters, as well as read and write short messages, postcards, simple notes, and short descriptions. You will also learn about some aspects of Chinese culture. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is not open to native speakers of MandarinSecond semester of Elementary Chinese for heritage students. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets three times a week, one hour a day. If you have not taken Chinese 1AX, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Test. Find the online test at ealc.berkeley.edu. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 2A. Reading and analysis of a variety of classical Chinese prose texts, highlighting basic grammatical and rhetorical features of the language. On completing this course, students should have mastered all essential grammatical and syntactic features of the classical language, core vocabulary, as well as basic skills in the use of the relevant reference tools, and be fully prepared for upper-division classical literature courses. Prerequisites: Satisfactory completion of Chinese 2A.Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language.Five one-hour meetings in class, two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 10AX, an intermediate-level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10AX; or consent of instructor.This seminar will explore the early history of Chinese philosophy during its classic period: the late Spring and Autumn and Warring States eras (7th century to 3rd century B.C.E.). We will concentrate on the classic books that represent the major schools of thought. These will include: the Analects of Confucius, the utilitarian and pragmatic Mozi, the Daoist Zhuangzi, the Legalist Hanfeizi, and the syncretic Lüshi chunqiu. Each of our two-hour meetings will be devoted to one of these seminal works. We will draw from this and other material in our discussions of the early Chinese conceptions of ethics, sexuality, politics, self-cultivation, desire, and aesthetics. Each student will choose a topic of special interest for the research paper. All readings will be English translations. This seminar will meet for the first eight weeks of the semester, beginning January 21, 2004 and ending March 10, 2004. Prerequisites: None.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss in Chinese in class. Literary aspects are discussed in addition to problems of vocabulary and syntax. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 100AX, an advanced-level course for Mandarin speakers with intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The reading materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100AX; or consent of instructor.The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.This class presents a survey of poetry of the pre-Han and Han periods. We read texts written in literary Chinese, interpret and discuss them, and attempt to translate them into English. Selections (reproduced in a course reader) include parts of the canonical Shijing (The Book of Songs) and the Chuci (The Lyrics of Chu), as well as examples of Han dynasty fu (“rhapsodies”), including a recently excavated piece. Emphasis throughout is on close and careful reading of the poetical texts. The pieces chosen are those that shed light not only on ancient poetical techniques and styles but also on early attitudes toward gender, love, eroticism, and moral cultivation. Prerequisites: Chinese 2B and one additional upper division course in Chinese literature; or consent of instructor.This course provides an introduction to the textual culture of the late Ming and Qing periods with readings of excerpts from novels and short fiction. Close attention to historical and literary historical context; skills in translation and literary analysis will also be developed. Topics for discussion include the seventeenth-century fascination with markets, money and exchange; the examination system and the dissolution of a traditionally constituted elite; the discourse on connoisseurship and collecting; gender and the Confucian bonds of human relation; the representation of homoeroticism. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or equivalent.This course is an introduction to media culture in twentieth-century China, with an emphasis on photography, cinema and popular music. The course places these productions in historical and cultural context, examining the complex intertwinement of culture, technology, and politics in China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan from the turn of the last century to the beginning of the twenty-first. We will consider the changing meanings of media culture through colonialism, revolution, and globalization. Students will also be introduced to a number of approaches to thinking about and analyzing popular cultural phenomena. Prerequisites: None.The spring 2004 topic of my seminar on the philological analysis of early Chinese texts is the Mozi. Stated in brief here, our work will include a review of the problems surrounding Mo Di’s biography, the numerous issues that complicate a clear understanding of the composition and transmission of the text, and a discussion of the basic ideas represented in the text, primarily as they are found in the so-called “core chapters.” Our review of Mo Di’s biography will involve: a study of references to the master in the “Analects” chapters of the Mozi and in other pre-Han (e.g., Zhuangzi and Mengzi), as well as of his extremely brief biographical notice in Sima Qian’s Records. Foremost among the textual issues we will examine are: those that relate to the authorship of the “core chapters” and the relationship among their versions, the disappearance of some “core chapters” and, supposedly, of others, the dating of all the chapters, but especially the problematic Book 1 and “Analects” chapters, and finally the relationship of the military and logic (i.e., Mohist “Canon”) chapters to the remainder. A discussion of the foregoing topics, based in part on reading secondary scholarship as well as on our examination of primary materials, will occupy the first four weeks of the semester. A discussion of the basic ideas found in the Mozi will be based on a selection of key passages compiled by the instructor and will occupy the next eight weeks of the semester. The final three weeks will be devoted to the presentation of research papers prepared by the seminar’s participants. Prerequisites: Graduate standing.In this seminar we will read and discuss sources in traditional literary theory and criticism, from the Southern Dynasties through late-imperial China, in a range of genres including systematic theoretical treatises, popular composition manuals, and a range of forms of practical criticism such as prefaces, marginal notes, and critical commentaries. Topics to be discussed include theories of adequacy or inadequacy of literary expression, genre theory, problems in periodization, and views on the relation between literary composition and Traditionalist scripture (jing). Prerequisites: Graduate standing and a good reading knowledge of classical Chinese.This course will attempt to delineate the commentarial battlelines drawn by the notable drama critics Wang Jide, Xu Wei, Mao Qiling, and Jin Shengtan who carried out their arguments between the lines and over the eyebrows of the Yuan play, Story of the Western Wing. The class will both examine the commentaries as readings of the play, but also as ploys to establish the critics' authority in a burgeoning commercial print culture. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and a good background in classical and classical vernacular Chinese.A continuation of 242A, with an emphasis on the generic forms of Chinese literature through the Qing. Prerequisites: Chinese 242A or consent of instructor.This interdisciplinary course explores the work texts and images do in their historical moment, and how different visual cultures and genres of writing co-exist synchronically, by reading from the perspective of modernity's margins the global print media of a single year: 1934. That year saw heightened struggles between fascist and leftist cultural politics, while the world itself seemed transformed by the media's capture, fragmentation, circulation, and recomposition of images across global space. Montage and collage practices, from illustrated magazines to various visual and verbal modernisms, were used to engage with this world and relocate identities amidst modern image cultures and the remainders of the past. Prerequisites: Reading knowledge of modern Chinese. Open to graduate students from across the humanities and social sciences.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A or equivalent; or consent of instructor.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1B to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.An introduction to Japanese literature in translation. This course provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: NoneIn this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A or equivalent; or consent of instructor.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Students will be trained to read, analyze, and translate modern Japanese scholarship on Chinese subjects. A major purpose of the course is to prepare students to take reading examinations in Japanese. The areas of scholarship to be covered are: politics, popular culture and religion, sociology and history, as well as areas suggested by students who are actively engaged in research projects. Two readings in each area will be assigned: one by the instructor and the second by a student participant. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; Chinese 100B or equivalent.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more at college level to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. It aims to develop further the vocabulary and knowledge of kanji and Japanese grammar needed to read books written for Japanese college students and the general public on various topics and to engage in discussions on what has been read. Althoug much class time will be spent on reading-related activities, students will also listen to mini-lections given by guest speakers and are expected to participate in discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess advanced ability in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their skills in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course focuses on perfecting reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students pursue their own projects based on extensive reading of materials in their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan are invited to the classroom to speak, their topics discussed afterwards. This provides a valuable opportunity for students to practice listening and speaking high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home is expected, and essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 111 or equivalent.Students will learn approaches to reading, in the original language, traditional Japanese poems (waka) by discussing nature poems from two imperial anthologies (Kokinshu, ca. 905 and Shin-Kokinshu, ca. 1205) and poetry exchanges contained in one woman’s memoir (Izumi Shikibu nikki, ca. 1007). Emphasis is on basic waka poetics and the function of waka in romantic dialogue. Prerequisites: 120 or equivalent.This course introduces students to the various aspects of modern Japanese literature with particular emphasis on the increasingly evident sense of geographical and psychological dislocation represented in prose fiction, popular narratives, and criticism. We will consider the modernist works of Natsume Sôseki and Akutagawa Ryûnosuke, the crime stories of Edogawa Rampo, and the hardboiled postmodern writings of Murakami Haruki. Selected passages in Japanese will be assigned for close reading, analysis and discussion. Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent.This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), topic management, historical changes, and genetic origins. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent, may be taken concurrently.This course provides an overview of the considerations that the translator must take into account when approaching a text. Special attention is paid to the structural differences between Japanese and English, cross-cultural differences in stylistics, writing with clarity, reference work, etc. Texts to be considered are drawn from both expository and literary writings in Japanese. By means of translating selected texts into English, students will acquire abilities to recognize common translation problems, apply methods for finding solutions, and evaluate accuracy and communicative effectiveness of translation. In consultation with the instructor, each student chooses an appropriate text to be translated during the course of the semester. Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent.The course examines the complex meanings of the ghost in modern Japanese literature and culture. Tracing the representations of the supernatural in drama, fiction, ethnography, and the visual arts, we explore how ghosts provide the basis for remarkable flights of imaginative speculation and literary experimentation. Topics include: storytelling and the loss of cultural identity, horror and its conversion into aesthetic pleasure, fantasy, and the transformation of the commonplace. We will consider historical, visual, anthropological, and literary approaches to the supernatural and raise cultural and philosophical questions crucial to an understanding of the figure and its role in the greater transformation of modern Japan (18th century to the present). Prerequisites: None.Living in Berkeley, we have one of the best resources in the United States for exploring the world of Japanese film (the Pacific Film Archive). But rarely do we get a chance to think in context about the development of Japanese film and film language. In this course we will begin with the early days of Japanese silent movies, examining their relationship with Hollywood and European avant-gardes. Then we will view some films by famous directors (Ozu, Kurosawa, Mizoguchi, Ichikawa) that confront elements of traditional Japanese culture, the world of the Kabuki theater and onna-gata (men who play female roles). We will discuss the experimental and avant-garde works of the New Wave directors of the 1960s (Ichikawa, Shinoda, Oshima). And finally, we'll explore contemporary popular films and anime by Miyazaki Hayao. Prerequisites: None.Linked verse (renga) was the most popular poetic form in Japan during the four centuries of the medieval period (ca. 13th to 17th c.). It was renga that developed into the haikai linked verse of Bashô and later into modern haiku. This course will introduce the history and practice of linked-verse, then read an orthodox hundred-verse sequence (hyakuin) by two of the foremost medieval renga practitioners and then a haikai sequence by Bashô and a number of his disciples. We will concentrate in particular on the renga conventions, intertextuality, and the relationships between oral and written media and between predetermined form and individual creativity. Prerequisites: Japanese 120.Reading and critical evaluation of selected texts in postwar (1940-present) Japanese fiction, drama, or poetry. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of instructor.Continuation of Elementary Korean 1A using similar methods and format to 1A. Five one-hour meetings plus one hour of language laboratory per week are required. Emphasis is on speaking, reading, and writing. Prerequisites: No background or very minimal background in Korean language or consent of instructor.This course explores the various aspects of modern Korean literature and culture in the twentieth century. We will examine a broad range of literary works as well as art and film, in the broader contexts of the early twentieth century development of nationalism, the Korean War and the national division, and the various issues that emerged in the process of modernization. Through critical analyses of the works of fiction, poetry, and visual media, we will consider the following set of matters: 1) how the issues of national identity, gender, and socio-economic class are articulated in a diverse array of texts; 2) what these texts can tell us about modern views on urban and rural space represented within; 3) how the major events in modern Korean history (war, urban unrest, political violence, dislocation and relocation) have been represented and remembered in literary texts and in popular culture; and 4) what our close and thoughtful readings might inform us about the complex relations between colonialism and a rise of modernist thinking of the national culture, and between cultural production and formation of identity. Prerequisites: NoneKorean 10B is a continuation of Korean 10A and will continue to use the materials and methods used in 10A. The aim of the course is to help the students develop the language skills necessary to pursue the study of Korean at a more advanced level. The course will introduce vocabulary and idioms beyond basic level, complex grammatical patterns, and varieties of speech styles. Prerequisites: Korean 10A or consent of instructor.Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of texts in modern Korean drawn from history, sociology, economics, etc. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or consent of instructor.In the summer of 2000, South Korea’s foremost lyric poet, Midang (Sô Chông-ju) passed away. Following his death saw the emergence of a number of criticisms, condemning, on the one hand, Midang’s stance as a collaborationist with the Japanese imperial power during the colonial era and, on the other hand, his lack of engagement in the socio-political issues throughout the politically volatile postcolonial era. Soon a host of debates ensued in journals and newspapers, some critics joining in the condemnation of the lyric poet and others defending the late poet on the grounds of his literary achievements. The debates not only aroused the rhetoric of national literature; they also revived the rift between “pure literature” and the literature of social engagement, which was generated in the literary discourse during the first two decades of the colonial era. More fundamentally, however, this debate implied suspicion and anxiety about lyric poetry inherent in the history of modern Korean literature. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or equivalent.A critical survey of the main themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism, as those are treated in modern scholarship. The course covers: the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism; the organization and function of Buddhist institutions (monastic and lay) in Japanese society; the interaction between Buddhism and other modes of religious belief and practice prevalent in Japan, notably those that go under the headings of "Shinto" and "folk religion"; and the recent emergence of so-called New Religions that derive their inspiration chiefly from the Buddhist tradition. Prerequisites: None.This course will use the medium of film to explore various themes and issues in the study of Buddhism. At the same time, we will use ideas culled from Buddhism to reflect back on the nature and power of film. We will be screening a wide variety of international and domestic films, from Hollywood blockbusters to small independent films and documentaries. Themes to be considered include: the epistemic status of the viewing subject, the place of imagination and visualization in Buddhist meditation and ritual, contesting Asian and Western notions of Buddhist authority, Orientalism, and the role of projection and fantasy in cinematic representations of Buddhism. The films will be accompanied by primary and secondary readings on Buddhist history and literature, religious studies, and film theory. Prerequisites: None.This semester the seminar will focus on the Vimalakirti Sutra, using the new edition of the Potala Palace Sanskrit manuscript as well as the various extant editions in Tibetan and Chinese. We will supplement our readings of the Sanskrit, Tibetan, and Chinese texts with a variety of secondary works on early Mahayana Buddhism. Students must have reading knowledge of Sanskrit or Tibetan or Classical Chinese. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor required.This graduate seminar is an intensive introduction to primary sources used in the study of Chan and Zen Buddhism. It is designed to be of interest to a range of graduate students working on premodern Chinese and Japanese culture (literature, philosophy, intellectual history, religion, art, etc.). The seminar will also introduce students to Asian and Western language reference tools for the study of East Asian Buddhist texts, including web resources. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; and one year of Classical Chinese or Kanbun, as well as familiarity with East Asian history and culture.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B provides elementary training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese. It is designed to help you learn enough Chinese to enable you to handle your needs adequately in Chinese-speaking places or communities. Building upon Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B will further introduce a core vocabulary and fundamental structures. You will be able to describe person/thing/event/place/time/feeling, describe and comment on food, provide and obtain information about borrowing/renting and returning, ask for and give directions, accept and reject invitations, describe health problems and give advice, and compare different places, sports, and prices. You will learn how to understand Chinese well enough to carry out routine tasks and engage in simple conversations. In addition to further mastering the Pinyin Romanization system, you will learn how to read and write 320 new Chinese characters and compounds derived from combining these characters, as well as read and write short messages, postcards, simple notes, and short descriptions. You will also learn about some aspects of Chinese culture. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is not open to native speakers of any Chinese dialectSecond semester of Elementary Chinese for heritage students. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets three times a week, one hour a day. If you have not taken Chinese 1AX, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Test. Find the online test at ealc.berkeley.edu. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AX; or consent of instructor.Chinese 1BY, an elementary Mandarin Chinese course for non-Mandarin speaking Chinese dialect heritage learners, is a continuation of Chinese 1AY. The course provides further training in language skills. Linguistic forms and ways of using them are taught to meet learners' language needs. The course prepares Chinese dialect heritage learners to merge with Mandarin heritage learners at an intermediate level for continuous learning. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AY; or consent of instructor.Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language.This semester we will pay particular attention to the emergence of vibrant new urban and vernacular cultures in the late imperial period and their relation with classical traditions and literati culture, as well the revolutionary cultural transformations of the late 19th and 20th centuries. The course will both survey the literary and cultural topography that every serious student of China ought to know, while at the same time developing the critical reading and writing skills necessary to traverse and imaginatively engage with that historical terrain. All readings are in English translation. Students who are conversant in Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible. Prerequisites: None. Recommended: Chinese 7A.Five one-hour meetings in class, two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 10AX, an intermediate-level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10AX; or consent of instructor.This seminar will explore the early history of Chinese philosophy during its classic period: the late Spring and Autumn and Warring States eras (7th century to 3rd century B.C.E.). We will concentrate on the classic books that represent the major schools of thought. These will include: the Analects of Confucius, the utilitarian and pragmatic Mozi, the Daoist Zhuangzi, the Legalist Hanfeizi, and the syncretic Lüshi chunqiu. Each of our two-hour meetings will be devoted to one of these seminal works. We will draw from this and other material in our discussions of the early Chinese conceptions of ethics, sexuality, politics, self-cultivation, desire, and aesthetics. Each student will choose a topic of special interest for the research paper. All readings will be English translations. This seminar will meet for the first eight weeks of the semester, beginning January 26, 2005 and ending March 16, 2005. Prerequisites: Freshman standing.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss in Chinese in class. Literary aspects are discussed in addition to problems of vocabulary and syntax. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 100AX, an advanced-level course for Mandarin speakers with intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The reading materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100AX; or consent of instructor.The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.The second half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, continuing the set of grammar review topics from the first semester, and giving basic coverage of more relevant issues in the history of the language and writing system, and the use of basic reference sources. Readings for this semester will be drawn from early historiographical texts. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This course will introduce students to selected works of modern Chinese literature produced in the first half of the 20th century, as well as their cultural and historical context. How did writers such as Lu Xun, Shen Congwen, Eileen Chang, and others attempt to make themselves "at home" in a world profoundly dislocated by the forces of colonialism, war, and revolution? We will examine the politics of literary style, questions of nationalism, representations of gender, and the problem of colonial modernity in these texts. All primary texts are presented in the original Chinese, supplemented by critical and biographical articles in English, Prerequisites: Chinese 100A or 100AX (may be taken concurrently).This course consists of lectures that provide a general overview of traditional Chinese culture from the early Zhou dynasty through the Tang (the 1st millennium BCE through the 9th century of this era). Special emphasis is given to the origins and development of philosophy, art, religion, prose, and poetry. The subjects to be covered include: the Chinese language and writing system, the classical canon, Confucianism and its opponents, historiography, the traditions and techniques of Taoism, hero cults and ancestor worship, burial practice, ghost stories, and the introduction of Buddhism and its role in early Chinese society. Prerequisites: None.The seminar for spring 2005 is devoted to the Lunheng of Wang Chong (27-97? CE). We will focus on a group of chapters that sets forth Wang Chong’s views on death, the ontology of ghosts and the landscape of the netherworld. What will perhaps concern us more than either Wang Chong’s views or his ways of arguing, is the wide window his writings incidentally provide on the beliefs, opinions, assumptions, and customs current in Wang Chong’s day. Our work will mostly involve reading and analyzing Wang Chong’s writings. We will secondarily be concerned with compiling and considering a bibliography of relevant secondary scholarship. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; good command of literary Chinese.In this course we will read and discuss a variety of sources in the literary culture of the period from the last decades of the Eastern Han through the Southern Dynasties (late second–sixth centuries). Specific topics to be addressed include the relation between literary production and elite self-fashioning (as for example in the parallel rise of discourses of character evaluation and of first-person lyric poetry); developments in hermeneutical thought in early-medieval academic culture (including for example the vogue of “discovery” and/or forgery of classic texts as a parallel to more conventional literary production); the implications of the developing culture of eremitic withdrawal for literary writing; and the appearance of a transcendent aesthetic of nature and the natural and the analogues to this development in early Chinese Buddhism.. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; good command of Classical Chinese.In recent years, both literary scholars and historians have pushed back the temporal boundaries of Chinese modernity by examining the tumultuous and transitional late Qing era. In this seminar, we will survey mid-to-late Qing fiction and other literary works, review the current revisionist scholarship, and in doing so, attempt to situate Chinese fiction within the world-historical horizon of the Victorian era. Topics to be considered include the transformation of narrative modes in the late Qing, genre fiction (detective novels, novels of sentiment, science fiction, courtesan fiction), the translation, appropriation, and circulation of Western discourses and texts in China (including scientific works, social theory, and narrative fiction). In examining the emergence of new literary modes and new nationalisms in the last decades of the Qing, we will focus in particular on questions of coloniality, gender, race, and evolutionary theory. Original texts will include works by Arthur Conan Doyle, Charles Dickens, Han Bangqing, Li Ruzhen, Liang Qichao, Lin Shu, Ma Junwu, Wu Jianren, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and Yan Fu, and others. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; excellent command of modern and classical Chinese.Statements about being isolated or outcast articulate not only the conditions of seclusion and difference, but also the politics of space and identity that foreground a mode of ordering the world. The trope of exile as it appears in literature thus provides a useful site to comparatively examine the various texts’ critical engagement with both global and local spaces and identities. This course is a wide-ranging investigation of literary as well as other cultural representations that hypothesize exile, focusing particularly on the permutations of such cultural space in Korean literary imaginations. Our examinations will focus on the narratives of exile which developed in the context of three key historical moments that inspired rethinking of the world order: the late Chosôn interaction with the Qing empire and then with the West; the colonial interaction with the Japanese empire; and the postwar national division followed by the persisting postcolonial interaction with the United States.Through careful analysis of the texts, the course will explore several articulations of the poetics of exile, beginning first with the motif of the “island of the righteous” in late Chosôn literature, and turning subsequently to the narratives about urban dislocation and “internal exile” produced in twentieth century colonial Korea, the divided Koreas, and the Korean diaspora. Through these texts, we will consider a broader issue of the role of a space-inspired imagination (such as literary exile) in shaping, as well as understanding, the social or representational order of the given world, the conception of identity, and the styles of narration or visual presentation. All readings will be in English translation. Prerequisites: None.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1B to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.An introduction to Japanese literature in translation. This course provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.Students will be trained to read, analyze, and translate modern Japanese scholarship on Chinese subjects. A major purpose of the course is to prepare students to take reading examinations in Japanese. The areas of scholarship to be covered are: politics, popular culture and religion, sociology and history, as well as areas suggested by students who are actively engaged in research projects. Two readings in each area will be assigned: one by the instructor and the second by a student participant. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; Chinese 100B or equivalent.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more at college level to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. It aims to develop further the vocabulary and knowledge of kanji and Japanese grammar needed to read books written for Japanese college students and the general public on various topics and to engage in discussions on what has been read. Althoug much class time will be spent on reading-related activities, students will also listen to mini-lections given by guest speakers and are expected to participate in discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess advanced ability in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their skills in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course focuses on perfecting reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students pursue their own projects based on extensive reading of materials in their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan are invited to the classroom to speak, their topics discussed afterwards. This provides a valuable opportunity for students to practice listening and speaking high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home is expected, and essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 111 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course focuses on a single formative text in the history of Japanese literature, the Heike Monogatari. Its principal subject is the political intrigue and civil war between the Taira and Minamoto clans that brought the Heian period to a close. The course in primarily designed to further skills in reading classical Japanese. We will do close readings in Japanese of selected sections from this long, episodic work, sections chosen to demonstrate the variety of subject matter encompassed in Heike Monogatari. There will also be a few supplementary readings in EnglishIn this class, we will read experimental works of fiction and poetry in Japanese. Beginning with the modernist writings of Shinkankakuha (New Sensation School) and avant-garde poetry of the 1920s, we will look at different currents of literary experimentalism leading up to comtemporary literature, including postmodernist fiction and new trends in the traditional tanka composition. Readings will include works by Yokomitsu Riichi, Kawabata Yasunari, Inagaki Taruho, Hagiwara Kyôjirô, Kitasono Katsue, Kitagawa Fuyuhiko, Abe Kôbô, Takahashi Gen'ichirô and Masuno Kôichi. Challenging the normative literary style, the writings by these authors will provide us with a platform to contemplate the functions and operations of literary language. The primary goal of this class is the comprehension of literary works in the original. By reading texts that resist smooth and sytematic absorption and claim to be something more than transarent media, class participants are expected to hone their ability to analyze literary stlye. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), topic management, historical changes, and genetic origins. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent, may be taken concurrently.In this course we will explore the complex topic of love in classical Japanese literature by focusing on two culturally important and in many ways contrasting eras of premodern Japan, the high-classical period of eleventh century Heian Japan and the Genroku culture associated with the pleasure quarters of seventeenth century Edo Japan. For the Heian period, we will read personal memoirs by women, narrative fiction, poetry, and prose vignettes based on poems. For the Genroku period, we will read short stories and plays. In both cases students will also be assigned secondary material that provides relevant historical and cultural information regarding these two periods. Where appropriate we will compare notions and ideals of romantic relationships as portrayed in these works with Western ideals that developed in classical and medieval Europe. Prerequisites: None.Japan is rarely associated with the notion of diversity. The discourse surrounding Japanese society generally leans towards the idea of singularity and uniformity rather than of pluralism, rendering invisible those identities that do not fit the mold. This course is designed to introduce various aspects of Japanese sociocultural identity as represented in works of fiction from the early 20th century to the present. Topics include ethnic minorities, social class and non-normative sexuality, as well as crises of identity. We will also explore the problems concerning the representations of marginal identities and the process of their acceptance in the literary institution and society at large. All readings are in English translation. Prerequisites: None.Lectures will cover the three major forms of traditional Japanese drama: noh, bunraku (puppet theater) and kabuki. Readings will consist of translations of plays and English language secondary articles. Dramatic texts will be analyzed as literature and, to some extent, as performance. In-class videos will be used to demonstrate performance practices. Prerequisites: None.Man'yôshû (The Collection of a Myriad Leaves / Ages) is the oldest extant anthology of poetry in Japanese. With the bulk of its 4,500 poems dating from the seventh and eighth centuries, it constitutes the inevitable starting point for any diachronic study of Japanese verse. The poems in the anthology provide the opportunity for literary archaeology of the first order, allowing us to disinter evidence about some of the most exciting dialectics in early Japanese literary history: between oral practice and the tentative beginnings of the written tradition, between religious ritual and literary art, between imported and native artistic systems, and between communal expression and the development of the individual literary consciousness.. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.In this seminar we will read and discuss modernist literature against the backdrop of its contemporary culture, in an attempt to renegotiate its boundaries. We will focus, although not exclusively, on the years between the Great Kanto Earthquake and the Manchurian Incident, when modernist literature came to the forefront of the literary scene along with its "nemesis," proletarian literature. An emphasis of our exploration will be placed on the relationship between modernist and proletarian literature, two literary movements that shared many traits and even participants yet are commonly described to have been antagonistic to one another. Special attention will also be given to the short-lived phenomenon of modanizumu bungaku, which remains a blind spot in the scholarship of Japanese modernism as it continues to be marginalized in both literary and cultural studies. Prerequisites: consent of instructor.The class meets five days a week, one hour per day. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. The class meets three days a week, one hour per day. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.This course explores various aspects of modern Korean literature and culture in the twentieth century. We will examine a range of literary works as well as art and film, in the broader contexts of the early twentieth century development of nationalism, the Korean War and national division, and the various issues that emerged in the process of modernization. All readings are in English translation.Through critical analysis of the works of fiction, poetry, and visual media, we will consider the following set of matters: 1) how the issues of national identity, gender, and socio-economic class are articulated in a diverse array of texts; 2) the complex relations between colonialism and a rise of modernist thinking about the national culture, and between cultural production and formation of identity; 3) modern views on urban and rural space; 4) how the major events in modern Korean history (colonial occupation, war, urban unrest, political violence, dislocation and relocation) have been represented and remembered in literary texts and in popular culture. Prerequisites: None.Korean 10B is a continuation of Korean 10A and will continue to use the materials and methods used in 10A. The aim of the course is to help the students develop the language skills necessary to pursue the study of Korean at a more advanced level. The course will introduce vocabulary and idioms beyond basic level, complex grammatical patterns, and varieties of speech styles. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of texts in modern Korean drawn from history, sociology, economics, etc. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and its rich literature. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1A.This course is a broad introduction to the history, doctrine, and culture of the Buddhism of Tibet. We will begin with the introduction of Buddhism to Tibet in the eighth century, and move on to the evolution of the major schools of Tibetan Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhist literature, ritual and monastic practice, the place of Buddhism in Tibetan political history, and the contemporary situation of Tibetan Buddhism both inside and outside of Tibet. Prerequisites: None.A study of the Buddhist tradition as it is found today in Asia. The course will focus on specific living traditions of East, South, and/or Southeast Asia. Themes to be addressed may include contemporary Buddhist ritual practices; funerary and mortuary customs; the relationship between Buddhism and other local religious traditions; the relationship between Buddhist institutions and the state; Buddhist monasticism and its relationship to the laity; Buddhist ethics; Buddhist "modernism," and so on. Prerequisites: None.This course is an intensive introduction to the history, doctrine, and monastic culture of Chinese Chan and Japanese Zen Buddhism in the light of modern scholarship. We will focus on the interrelationships between Chan and Zen philosophy, ritual, literature, institutional structure, and meditative practice. Our approach will be multidisciplinary, drawing from anthropology, history, philosophy, and literary hermeneutics, and we will use a wide range of primary and secondary readings as well as visual resources. Prerequisites: None.This seminar offers an advanced introduction to Tibetan Buddhist history by exploring in detail the development of the culture and religions of Tibet from the ancient empire to relations with China. Emphasis will be on significant facets of Tibet's cultural heritage, including religion, literature, history, and politics. The course will also examine the varied academic approaches that scholars have taken in their attempts to understand and interpret Tibet and Tibetan Buddhism. With this particular goal in mind we will focus thoroughly and critically on three important recent scholarly works in the field of Tibetan Studies. Throughout the course each of these works will be supplemented with additional readings that should help to illuminate and/or nuance the relevant issues and topics addressed. The course will run on a seminar format with active and in-depth discussion of readings and intensive individual writing projects. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor required.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B provides elementary training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese. It is designed to help you learn enough Chinese to enable you to handle your needs adequately in Chinese-speaking places or communities. Building upon Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B will further introduce a core vocabulary and fundamental structures. You will be able to describe person/thing/event/place/time/feeling, describe and comment on food, provide and obtain information about borrowing/renting and returning, ask for and give directions, accept and reject invitations, describe health problems and give advice, and compare different places, sports, and prices. You will learn how to understand Chinese well enough to carry out routine tasks and engage in simple conversations. In addition to further mastering the Pinyin Romanization system, you will learn how to read and write 320 new Chinese characters and compounds derived from combining these characters, as well as read and write short messages, postcards, simple notes, and short descriptions. You will also learn about some aspects of Chinese culture. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is not open to native speakers of any Chinese dialectSecond semester of Elementary Chinese for heritage students. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets three times a week, one hour a day. If you have not taken Chinese 1AX, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Test. Find the online test at ealc.berkeley.edu. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AX; or consent of instructor.Chinese 1BY, an elementary Mandarin Chinese course for non-Mandarin speaking Chinese dialect heritage learners, is a continuation of Chinese 1AY. The course provides further training in language skills. Linguistic forms and ways of using them are taught to meet learners' language needs. The course prepares Chinese dialect heritage learners to merge with Mandarin heritage learners at an intermediate level for continuous learning. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AY; or consent of instructor.Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language.This semester we will pay particular attention to the emergence of vibrant new urban and vernacular cultures in the late imperial period and their relation with classical traditions and literati culture, as well the revolutionary cultural transformations of the late 19th and 20th centuries. The course will both survey the literary and cultural topography that every serious student of China ought to know, while at the same time developing the critical reading and writing skills necessary to traverse and imaginatively engage with that historical terrain. All readings are in English translation. Students who are conversant in Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible. Prerequisites: None. Recommended: Chinese 7A.Five one-hour meetings in class, two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 10AX, an intermediate-level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10AX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss in Chinese in class. Literary aspects are discussed in addition to problems of vocabulary and syntax. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 100AX, an advanced-level course for Mandarin speakers with intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The reading materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100AX; or consent of instructor.The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.The second half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, continuing the study of grammatical structures and classical usage from the first semester, and introducing the use of basic reference sources. Readings for this semester will be drawn from a range of literary, philosophical, and historiographical texts through the Song Dynasty. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This course is intended to give students familiarity with the range of styles, forms, and rhetorical modes of the classical shi poem. We will devote significant effort to learning to read, understand, and appreciate poems in the original; at the same time, we will work on cultivating our expertise as literary critics and essayists through broad reading of poetry in translation and secondary works on the historical and literary contexts of the poetry, as well as interpretive and critical approaches. We will also draw significantly on traditional Chinese critical and instructional works on poetry, and develop skills in understanding and using those sources. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This course will introduce students to selected works of Chinese literature written in the second half of the twentieth century, with particular emphasis on recent trends in fiction. We will read short stories, novels, and essays by several major (and some newly emergent) contemporary authors, including A Cheng, Yu Hua, Wang Xiaobo, Zhu Wen, Yin Lichuan, Ke Yufen, Luo Yijun, and Xi Xi . The course is not a survey; rather, we will read an idiosyncratic selection of texts produced from out of the dizzying historical transformations of the post-Mao and post-Cold War sinophone world. In particular, we will ask why - in an age of globalization and economic effervescence - Chinese fiction remains haunted by questions of (historical and political) violence, death, and (ecological and personal) impermanence? All reading will be in Chinese, supplemented by occasional critical and biographical articles in English. Prerequisites: Chinese 100; or consent of instructor.The seminar will focus on the life and works of Yuan Mei (1716-1798). Particular attention will be paid to Yuan’s life in Yangzhou, his association with Luo Pin (1733-1799) and other artists, and the reasons behind the criticisms leveled at Yuan by Zhang Xuecheng (1738-1801). While in his literary life, Yuan is perhaps best remembered as a talented, innovative, and prolific poet, we will in our seminar meetings concentrate on Yuan’s prose writings, most notably his collection of “ghost stories,” entitled Zibuyu, and his cookbook, the earliest work to define the cooking methods, tastes, and ingredients of the Yangzhou area. A significant part of the seminar will be devoted to reading, interpreting, and evaluating the ghost stories and working through parts of Yuan’s cookbook. The seminar will also offer opportunities, however, to study Yuan’s poetry and other prose compositions; to compare Yuan Mei’s writings with those of other famous authors of ghost stories, for example, Pu Songling (1640-1715); to assess the nature of elite existence and culture in the Yangzhou area in the light of Yuan Mei’s life and career; and to evaluate the influence of Yuan’s poetry and prose on the history of Chinese literature. Prerequisites: Graduate standingThis seminar examines the relations between photography, writing, and their purported relations to the real in 20th-century China. Particularly during the 1920s-1930s, thinking about the newly pervasive medium of photography both drew upon and transformed pre-existing understandings of the material and visual qualities of images and the spaces they create, occupy, and depict. Popular and elite writings about photographic images considered them to be at once a foreign and a persuasively “realistic” way of seeing, as both opaque material traces and transparent pictures of perspectival spaces. Photographic discourse – such as the idea of photography’s accurate transcription of reality, or its ability to reveal the unseen in social and other realities – also informed the emerging discourse of literary realism. But throughout the entire 20th century in both popular and scholarly arenas, ideas of writing as a kind of photography – and of photography as a kind of writing – have been intertwined with reconceptions of the nature of space and scene, evidence and the document, art and composition, likeness and description, representation of self and other, and the picturing of history, memory, and the present. Prerequisites: Reading knowledge of modern Chinese. Open to graduate students, as well as to upper-division undergraduates in the humanities and social sciences with instructor’s permission.This course will explore how the Chinese and English-language literary traditions (broadly defined) delineate the realm of the ineffable, and how cultural notions of the inexpressible shape the writing and reading of poems, songs, and a selection of prose pieces, from the uses of figurative language and prosody to genre and canon formation. In addition, in order to deepen our understanding of how writing achieves its aims, some attention will be given to non-verbal modes of expression, including calligraphy and painting—and attempts to render them in writing. Over this course of study, students will not only refine their sensitivity to the power of artistic modes of indirection, but will also hone their skills in close reading, analytical writing, and oral expression. All readings will be in English. Prerequisites: None.An introductory course on Chinese poetry, both ancient and modern, in English translation. The course will explore poetic translation, across languages, across cultures, and across historical ages, not merely from the perspective of the "accuracy" with which a classic text is represented in the translation, but as a window into the nature of poetic tradition and poetic writing itself. Works to be covered in the course will be primarily drawn from the Chinese tradition, but in the interest of allowing a comparative discussion of the course's central themes, a significant amount of reading, also in translation, from ancient and modern Greek poetry will be included as well. The goal of the class is not simply to gain familiarity with Chinese poetry and poets, but more fundamentally to gain skill and sophistication in reading, responding to, and thinking about poetry. All readings will be in English translation. Prerequisites: None.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1B to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.An introduction to Japanese literature in translation. This course provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, film, visual culture, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers and other creators of culture worked within their aesthetic forms as they responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the changing nature of Japanese aesthetic form, shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None. In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to enable their acquisition of a better understanding of Japanese grammar in general and clause linkage in particular.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more at college level to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. It aims to develop further the vocabulary and knowledge of kanji and Japanese grammar needed to read books written for Japanese college students and the general public on various topics and to engage in discussions on what has been read. Although much class time will be spent on reading-related activities, students will also listen to mini-lections given by guest speakers and are expected to participate in discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess advanced ability in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their skills in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course focuses on perfecting reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students pursue their own projects based on extensive reading of materials in their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan are invited to the classroom to speak, their topics discussed afterwards. This provides a valuable opportunity for students to practice listening and speaking high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home is expected, and essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 111 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course focuses on a single formative text in the history of Japanese literature, the Heike Monogatari. Its principal subject is the political intrigue and civil war between the Taira and Minamoto clans that brought the Heian period to a close. The course in primarily designed to further skills in reading classical Japanese. We will do close readings in Japanese of selected sections from this long, episodic work, sections chosen to demonstrate the variety of subject matter encompassed in Heike Monogatari. There will also be a few supplementary readings in English. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A and Japanese 120; or consent of instructor.In this course we will read one of the most famous of Japanese literary texts, the haiku travel journal by the master poet Matsuo Bashô (1644–94). Narrow Road to the Deep North (Oku no hosomichi, late 17th c.) is known for its charm, depth of humanity, and literary eloquence. In the first few sessions of class, we will read Oku no hosomichi in its entirety, in English. The bulk of the semester will be spent reading passages in its original bungo (premodern literary Japanese). There will be a balanced emphasis on literary appreciation and understanding the grammatical patterns of its bungo. The final three weeks of the term will be devoted to other Bashô haiku and the poems of two other haiku masters—Yosano Buson (1716–1783) and Kobayashi Issa (1763–1827). Buson is often contrasted with Bashô as having a more sensual or personal content to his poems. Issa is known for his love of the small and charming, and his sense of humor. Prerequisites: J120 or a solid foundation in the grammar of classical Japanese.This course will explore the variety of representations of imperial Tokyo (1890s – 1945), covering its ties to Edo and the rupture of those ties; its “ground level” contours as fictionally represented (such as in Higuchi Ichiyo and Natsume Soseki); its role as the hub of both mass culture and high modernism as radiated outward to Japan’s internal peripheries and empire; and finally as the cynosure of defeat. We will work primarily through written texts (both in Japanese and in translation) and related critical studies, but also make strategic use of newspaper clippings, films and photography collections. And, though the course is not intended to be a history of the city, we will incorporate selected historical treatments by Edward Seidensticker, Jinnai Hidenobu, and others. Prerequisites: J100; or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), topic management, historical changes, and genetic origins. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100B or equivalent, may be taken concurrently.This course is an introduction to Japanese cinema beginning in the silent era to the present, including the major directors, genres and movements of the twentieth century. The screenings are arranged more or less chronologically, to facilitate discussion of the historical and technological development of Japanese cinema. More importantly, however, we will be discussing some thematic topics that recur across time. Some questions that will motivate class discussion include the following: What is the relationship between modern films and traditional culture? What is the role of film in representing or creating a rebellious youth culture? Is there a coherent Japanese national cinema, and how has it been defined and stereotyped by both Japanese and Western observers? In addition to learning to view films critically, we will also be reading critical essays in English in order to gain familiarity with current scholarship on Japanese cinema. Prerequisites: None.This is a course in bibliographical methods and materials for the humanistic study of Japan. The course is meant to provide experience in handling the basic resources in not only literature but also bibliographical citation, lexicography, history, religion, fine arts, geography, personal names, biographies, genealogies, and calendrical calculation. Internet access is required. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor. This seminar examines several types of pre-modern Japanese narrative and dramatic texts in order to explore the limits of the significance of genre distinctions. Toward this end the class will study a single basic plot, Atsumori no saigo (The Death of Atsumori), from the medieval narrative Heike monogatari (Tales of the Heike), and its later manifestations in nô drama, otogi zôshi (late medieval stories), kôwaka (ballad-drama) , ko-jôruri (early puppet narrative), sekkyô-bushi (sermon-ballads) and jôruri (puppet theatre). In the process, we will explore the ways in which a single familiar narrative grows and shifts focus through time as it is re-framed according to the conventions of different performance traditions. Prerequisites: Two semesters of classical Japanese. Graduate standing or consent of the instructor.In the seminar, we will examine literary representations of Tokyo from the 1900s to the 1930s, focusing on how images of urban space allowed novelists and critics to convey both the troubling legacies and hopeful futures that marked the developing city. We will consider the ways in which the anxieties and ideals associated with city life are shared and mediated by aesthetic means. How does the thematic desire to represent the modern city as a place full of possibilities come together with a formal impulse of the modernist novel to register the sensations of shock and vertiginous sense of disequilibrium? How do the competing forms of the novel, the prose poem or the sociological essay participate in the interpretation of urban space and everyday life? Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor. The class meets five days a week, one hour per day. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in KoreanContinuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. The class meets three days a week, one hour per day. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.This course explores various aspects of modern Korean literature and culture in the twentieth century. We will examine a range of literary works as well as art and film, in the contexts of colonialism and nationalism, the Korean War and national division, and the various issues that emerged in the process of modernization. No previous course work in Korean or Korean studies required. All readings are in English translation.Through critical analysis of the works of fiction, poetry, and visual media, we will consider the following set of matters: 1) how the issues of national identity, gender, and socio-economic class are articulated in a diverse array of texts; 2) the complex relations between colonialism and a rise of modernist thinking about the national culture, and between cultural production and formation of identity; 3) modern views on urban and rural space; and 4) how the major events in modern Korean history (colonial occupation, war, urban unrest, political violence, dislocation and relocation) have been represented and remembered in literary texts and in popular culture. Prerequisites: None.Korean 10B is a continuation of Korean 10A and will continue to use the materials and methods used in 10A. The aim of the course is to help the students develop the language skills necessary to pursue the study of Korean at a more advanced level. The course will introduce vocabulary and idioms beyond basic level, complex grammatical patterns, and varieties of speech styles. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of texts in modern Korean drawn from history, sociology, economics, etc. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B; or consent of instructor.This course is a critical exploration of the broad range of prose literature before the 20th century, including vernacular fiction, memoirs, travel accounts, and essays. Particular attention will be given to narrative styles, issues of personal identity, and a link between literary text and material culture in the development of prose literature before the 20th century. The course is intended as a close reading of key prose narrative works, while functioning simultaneously as an introduction to basic reading knowledge of premodern Korean texts. This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and its rich literature. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1A; or consent of instructor. This course, a continuation of 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The course focuses on both modern vernacular Tibetan as well as literary Tibetan, with a particular emphasis on reading classical Buddhist materials. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A; or consent of instructor.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B provides elementary training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Modern Standard Chinese. It is designed to help you learn enough Chinese to enable you to handle your needs adequately in Chinese-speaking places or communities. Building upon Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B will further introduce a core vocabulary and fundamental structures. You will be able to describe person/thing/event/place/time/feeling, describe and comment on food, provide and obtain information about borrowing/renting and returning, ask for and give directions, accept and reject invitations, describe health problems and give advice, and compare different places, sports, and prices. You will learn how to understand Chinese well enough to carry out routine tasks and engage in simple conversations. In addition to further mastering the Pinyin Romanization system, you will learn how to read and write 320 new Chinese characters and compounds derived from combining these characters, as well as read and write short messages, postcards, simple notes, and short descriptions. You will also learn about some aspects of Chinese culture. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is not open to native speakers of any Chinese dialect.Chinese 1BY, an elementary Mandarin Chinese course for non-Mandarin speaking Chinese dialect heritage learners, is a continuation of Chinese 1AY. The course provides further training in language skills. Linguistic forms and ways of using them are taught to meet learners' language needs. The course prepares Chinese dialect heritage learners to merge with Mandarin heritage learners at an intermediate level for continuous learning. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AY; or consent of instructor.Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language.This semester we will pay particular attention to the emergence of vibrant new urban and vernacular cultures in the late imperial period and their relation with classical traditions and literati culture, as well the revolutionary cultural transformations of the late 19th and 20th centuries. The course will both survey the literary and cultural topography that every serious student of China ought to know, while at the same time developing the critical reading and writing skills necessary to traverse and imaginatively engage with that historical terrain. All readings are in English translation. Students who are conversant in Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible. Prerequisites: None. Recommended: Chinese 7A.Five one-hour meetings in class, two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 10AX, an intermediate-level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10AX; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss in Chinese in class. Literary aspects are discussed in addition to problems of vocabulary and syntax. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 100AX, an advanced-level course for Mandarin speakers with intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The reading materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100AX; or consent of instructor.The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.The second half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, continuing the study of grammatical structures and classical usage from the first semester, and introducing the use of basic reference sources. Readings for this semester will be drawn from a range of literary, philosophical, and historiographical texts through the Song Dynasty. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.In this course, taking the monumental Ming dynasty novel The Journey to the West (Xi you ji) as the central strand of our inquiry, we will explore the range of implications and resonances of the journey in Chinese literature. While the kernel narrative of The Journey to the West is an actual journey taken by the seventh-century Buddhist priest Xuanzang (596–664) from the Tang court to India to seek new Buddhist scriptures, by the time the novel we know by this name takes its final form nearly a millenium later (it has been somewhat tentatively ascribed to Wu Cheng’en [~1500–1582]), it has become both a pinnacle of Chinese literature of the fantastic and an encyclopedic repository for traditional lore of the journey: cosmological, geographical, religious, ethnographic, alchemical, philosophical, psychological, political, zoological. The Journey to the West became a classic for later readers, and as such enjoyed a particularly rich afterlife, in the form of sequels, illustrations, stage (as well as, later, cinema and television) adaptations, as well as commentaries proposing adventurous and inventive theories of allegorical meaning in the work. The novel and its central characters have, moreover, become cultural touchstones for many readers down to the present day. Thus the course will conclude with a few examples of this “afterlife” of The Journey to the West. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.The major goal of this course is to provide an introduction to basic concepts in general Chinese linguistics and to reinforce the participants’ knowledge of the basic elements of linguistics relevant to the learning of Chinese and its culture. This course investigates the phonology, syntax, semantics, lexicon, and writing system of the Chinese language. Also covered briefly are some topics relating language to cognition, culture, and society. Prerequisites: completion of Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor. An introductory course in linguistics is recommended.This course examines the different spheres of meaning that have been formed through interpretations of the person and teachings of Confucius. We will consider how the words attributed to Confucius were understood by his near-contemporaries and by later generations, situating these readings within the social and political order of their times. We will examine how Confucian ideals have shaped government, social roles, and intellectual commitments, and how various interpretive communities in turn have shaped the understanding of the Confucian canon. We will also ask what the figure of Confucius meant for these various groups, and how this figure was defined through ritual and material culture. Further, we will consider Confucian responses to other intellectual forces, such as Legalism, Daoism, Buddhism, and Christianity, and reimagination of Confucianism in light of perceived challenges of modernity. Class discussion will focus on readings from primary texts, but will also take into account recent scholarship on the intellectual and social history of the Confucian tradition. Prerequisites: None.In this seminar, we will examine a selection of writings in traditional literary thought, beginning with the Shijing’s “Great Preface” and ending with the works of Qing Dynasty writers such as Wang Shizhen, Ye Xie, and Yuan Mei. As we read through essays, prefaces, letters, and various forms of poetic commentary, topics of discussion will include theories of literary expressio, the origins and evolution of key theoretical terms and phrases, genre theory, and the critical development of poetic personae. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and a good reading knowledge of classical Chinese.This seminar will provide a forum for reading and discussing the work of perhaps the single most important and iconic figure in modern Chinese literature. We will read through the canon, sample various critical approaches to his study, and familiarize ourselves with the voluminous scholarly apparatus that has grown up around his writings and his life. The thematic foci of the course will depend in part on student interests, for one of the most remarkable qualities of Lu Xun as a writer, translator, cultural broker, literary patron, activist, and thinker is the voracity and range of his interests and engagements, an incomplete resume of which would have to move from science fiction to modernist poetry, from 'the woman question' to children's literature, from Darwin to Marx,from Six Dynasties zhi-guai to European realism, and from ancient stone inscriptions to modern graphic arts. Given this multiplicity, a central aim of the course will be to contextualize Lu Xun and his writings not only within the local context of late Qing and Republican China, but also in a global and world-historical frame. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Note: If at all possible, students should acquire their own copy of the multi-volume Lu Xun quanji (Complete works of Lu Xun) in preparation for the course.This course will be a survey of Buddhist poetry and poetics written in Pali, Sanskrit (“Classical” and “Buddhist Hybrid”), Prakrit, and Apabhramsha. The main question investigated will be in what sense such lyrical works can be legitimately labelled as “Buddhist” beyond any doctrinal content. To do this we will attempt a comparison with contemporaneous works written by non-Buddhist poets.There are no formal language requirements, translations for all of the poems and rhetorical discussions will be provided. The main emphasis will be on understanding Buddhist authors’ ideas concerning the nature and purpose of poetry. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Designed to supplement 1A-1B, respectively, in order to facilitate students' listening proficiency. 1AL will cover a variety of listening strategies. 1BL is a continuation of 1AL where students will apply these strategies in listening activities.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1B to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.Second semester of Elementary Chinese for heritage students. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets three times a week, one hour a day. If you have not taken Chinese 1AX, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Test. Find the online test at ealc.berkeley.edu. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AX; or consent of instructor.7B offers students the opportunity to consider a wide variety of prose fiction and poetry from Japan’s 19th through 21st centuries, that is, from the time of the Meiji Restoration (1868) until the present. About ten of the works will be read in their unabridged form. The first text we will discuss is what is often called the earliest Japanese work styled after the Western concept of the novel. The last work is a set of short stories exploring the impact of the Kobe earthquake. In between we will read authors who narrate pre-War, post-war and post-modern Japan. Rarely do these authors represent the most common values of their time but they always have a sharp understanding of the world within which they live. There will be abundant opportunity to explore Japanese social and cultural issues through the themes these authors set before the reader. This class is designed to include students with no background in Japan or the Japanese language.This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to enable their acquisition of a better understanding of Japanese grammar in general and clause linkage in particular.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.Students will be trained to read, analyze, and translate modern Japanese scholarship on Chinese subjects. A major purpose of the course is to prepare students to take reading examinations in Japanese. The areas of scholarship to be covered are: politics, popular culture and religion, sociology and history, as well as areas suggested by students who are actively engaged in research projects. Two readings in each area will be assigned: one by the instructor and the second by a student participant. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; Chinese 100B or equivalent.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more at college level to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. It aims to develop further the vocabulary and knowledge of kanji and Japanese grammar through reading and discussing various topics related to Japanese culture. Students will research culture topics and give a short presentation on their findings. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess advanced ability in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their skills in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course focuses on perfecting reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students pursue their own projects based on extensive reading of materials in their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan are invited to the classroom to speak, their topics discussed afterwards. This provides a valuable opportunity for students to practice listening and speaking high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home is expected, and essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 111 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.In this class we read in the original premodern Japanese passages from major women’s quasi-autobiographical works of the Heian period. The texts date from the 10th and 11th centuries and include Murasaki Shikibu’s journal, the author of The Tale of Genji as well as Sei Shônagon’s widely-read book of court life, Pillow Book. The other three texts are Kagerô Diary (a complaint about married life), Izumi Shikibu’s Story (a love affair’s progress as seen primarily through the poems the two lovers exchanged), and Sarashina Memoir (a woman’s retrospection on her life as a lover of fiction, sometimes imperial attendant, and believer of Buddhism). All of these writers employed sophisticated narrative techniques to present a specific persona of themselves to their contemporary readers. The class emphasis will be on the sometimes difficult language of these texts, all prominent examples of literary effort written in the script called onnade (“women’s hand”). The overall themes and characteristics of the texts at hand and the prose literature of the Heian period in general will be frequently discussed. The class is conducted in English. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A and Japanese 120; or consent of instructor.The life, death, and work of Mishima Yukio (1925-1970) constitute an extraordinary instance of self-production, or self-fashioning. It incorporates Mishima's highly conscious attempt to “write himself” into the postwar history of Japan both as a physical “body” (one literally remade to approximate an ideal of male beauty) at the head of a similarly designed private—but unarmed—army, and as the author of a literary testament of classic scope. This course will treat the “Mishima phenomenon” in three aspects: 1) in the context of postwar Japan's cultural and political history; 2) as an author particularly concerned to create in the classicizing mode; and 3) in terms of his aestheticized theory of transformative political action. Primary readings in the course (to be read in both Japanese and English) will consist of selections from Mishima's novels, short stories as well as political and critical essays. These readings will be supplemented by a selection of contextual treatments designed to convey something of the social and institutional milieux in which Mishima was formed. Prerequisites: J100B; or consent of instructor.In this course we will explore the complex topic of love in classical Japanese literature by focusing on two culturally important and in many ways contrasting eras of premodern Japan, the high-classical period of eleventh century Heian Japan and the Genroku culture associated with the pleasure quarters of seventeenth century Edo Japan. For the Heian period, we will read personal memoirs by women, narrative fiction, poetry, and prose vignettes based on poems. For the Genroku period, we will read short stories and plays. In both cases students will also be assigned secondary material that provides relevant historical and cultural information regarding these two periods. Where appropriate we will compare notions and ideals of romantic relationships as portrayed in these works with Western ideals that developed in classical and medieval Europe. Prerequisites: None.In this course, we will explore the four hundred year history of Tokyo, one of the greatest cities to rise in Asia and the world. Using a variety of sources that include literature, art, and film, we will begin with the creation of Edo (Tokyo's former name) as the castle town of Japan's ruling military family and trace the centuries-long changes brought to the city by evolving samurai ethics, culture, commerce, industry, modernization, and globalization. Prerequisites: None.In this course we will read a variety of literary texts in their relationship to non-literary arts. Topics include rebuses in the Heian period, Kibyôshi in the Edo period, Meiji literature and watercolor painting, the Meiji “beautiful girl” in literature and painting, food and the popular Meiji novel, Taisho film and literature, the 1920s language of the craft object, censorship of literary and visual images in the 1950s, conceptual art and the demise of writing in the 1960s, film and its theories, and the postwar photography and writing of crime. Most of these sections will be taught by visiting faculty; the content of the remaining sections will be decided by the class. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and reading knowledge of Japanese; or consent of instructor.Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Continuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.This course explores various aspects of modern Korean literature and culture in the twentieth century. We will examine a range of literary works as well as art and film, in the contexts of colonialism and nationalism, the Korean War and national division, and the various issues that emerged in the process of modernization. No previous course work in Korean or Korean studies required. All readings are in English translation.Through critical analysis of the works of fiction, poetry, and visual media, we will consider the following set of matters: 1) how the issues of national identity, gender, and socio-economic class are articulated in a diverse array of texts; 2) the complex relations between colonialism and a rise of modernist thinking about the national culture, and between cultural production and formation of identity; 3) modern views on urban and rural space; and 4) how the major events in modern Korean history (colonial occupation, war, urban unrest, political violence, dislocation and relocation) have been represented and remembered in literary texts and in popular culture. Prerequisites: None.Korean 10B is a continuation of Korean 10A and will continue to use the materials and methods used in 10A. The aim of the course is to help the students develop the language skills necessary to pursue the study of Korean at a more advanced level. The course will introduce vocabulary and idioms beyond basic level, complex grammatical patterns, and varieties of speech styles. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of texts in modern Korean drawn from history, sociology, economics, etc. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to increase the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 111; or consent of instructor.This course will explore the relationship between traditional Korean narrative fiction and the various performative and visual expressions that came to be associated with popular culture in the late Choson period (from the seventeenth century through 1910). Reading focuses on a few seminal works of narrative fiction from the late Choson period, together with materials drawn from visual culture and performance tradition, such as p’ansori, as well as historical documents and modern scholarly essays in literature and cultural history. The course aims to promote a critical understanding of popular culture in its intersection with literature, while functioning simultaneously as an introduction to pre-modern Korean prose. Prerequisites: Korean 100 or equivalent; or consent of instructor. Focusing on the culture of book collecting in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, this seminar explores various intersections of literature and material culture in late Chŏson Korea. We will examine the literary (and some visual) representations of private libraries and bibliophiles, antiquarianism and other intellectual investments in antiquity, and materialism in the urban culture surrounding the multi-tiered elite groups in Seoul, while situating these issues in the period of unprecedented exchanges between the Chŏson literati and their Qing counterparts. Among the questions to be addressed are: What does it mean to collect, display, or destroy a text? How do texts operate as objects of personal obsession and self-fashioning? How does the antiquarian culture of collecting shape the knowledge of the accessible antiquity in relation to the present, as it affects the bibliographic, as well as literary, taxonomies? What are some of the ways in which the materialist preoccupation with text as object registers the contemporary philosophical discourses on the nature of the material world vis-à-vis the nature and moral subjectivity of human, as well as the broader social concerns about the shifting conditions in the material world of the late Chŏson period? Finally, how does the attention to the materialist approach to literature unsettle the idea of reading literature as a supposedly “immaterial” event? Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Note: Students in Chinese or Japanese, as well as those specializing in history, art history, and other disciplines are welcome to join the seminar. Students without the reading knowledge of Korean should contact the instructor during the first week so that appropriate readings can be supplied. This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and its rich literature. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1A; or consent of instructor.This course, a continuation of 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). The course focuses on both modern vernacular Tibetan as well as literary Tibetan, with a particular emphasis on reading classical Buddhist materials. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive course in reading modern and classical Tibetan literature, with an emphasis on classical Buddhist texts. It builds on basic reading skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), and is designed to be taken either concurrently with 10A-10B (intermediate Tibetan) or independently. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A; or consent of instructor.This course is an introduction to some of the major themes in Tibetan Buddhist thought and practice. Beginning with a close study of Patrul Rinpoche’s classic nineteenth century guide to Tibetan Buddhism, the first month of the course will focus on the doctrinal foundations of the tradition. This will be followed by consideration of a recent anthropological monograph on a Tibetan Buddhist village in Nepal. From there, the course will follow a chronological overview of the historical development of Tibetan Buddhism from the seventh century to the present day. Themes considered during the second half of the course include ethics, ritual, art, sacred geography, and biographical literature. Readings will consist of primary texts in translation supplemented by secondary literature on the study of religion and Tibetan Buddhism. Prerequisites: None.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AX; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1BX is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade, or 3) can speak a non-Mandarin dialect and Mandarin. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.Chinese 1BY, an elementary Mandarin Chinese course for non-Mandarin speaking Chinese dialect heritage learners, is a continuation of Chinese 1AY. The course provides further training in language skills. Linguistic forms and ways of using them are taught to meet learners' language needs. The course prepares Chinese dialect heritage learners to merge with Mandarin heritage learners at an intermediate level for continuous learning.one Five in-class hours and an additional one-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AY; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1BY is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts. This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. This semester we will pay particular attention to the emergence of vibrant new urban and vernacular cultures in the late imperial period and their relation with classical traditions and literati culture, as well the revolutionary cultural transformations of the late 19th and 20th centuries. The course will both survey the literary and cultural topography that every serious student of China ought to know, while at the same time developing the critical reading and writing skills necessary to traverse and imaginatively engage with that historical terrain. Prerequisites: None. Recommended: Chinese 7A.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 10AX, an intermediate-level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss in Chinese in class. Literary aspects are discussed in addition to problems of vocabulary and syntax. A half-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Continuation of Chinese 100AX, an advanced-level course for Mandarin speakers with intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The reading materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100AX; or consent of instructor.The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.The second half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, continuing the study of grammatical structures and classical usage from the first semester, and introducing the use of basic reference sources. Readings for this semester will be drawn from a range of literary, philosophical, and historiographical texts through the Song Dynasty. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This course will introduce students to the critical analysis and translation of a wide-ranging selection of poems (and some poetic essays) from the Six Dynasties through the Song Dynasty. As students acquire the skills to read poems in the original, they will also develop their sensitivity to the particularities of individual style, the evolution of genres and the expressive uses of the formal features that typically comprise poetic writing. Along the way, students will consider the changing intellectual and historical contexts in which the poems were created and circulated. Among the many topics that will be discussed are: modes of self-presentation; the poetic expression of time and temporality; lyrical uses of space and visuality; uses of the past, narration and ellipsis; poetic explorations of Daoist, Confucian and Buddhist ideas. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A or the equivalent. Recommended: Chinese 7A or History 6A.This course will introduce students to selected works of Chinese literature written in the second half of the twentieth century. We will read stories and novels by major modern writers, as well as a number of newly emergent contemporary authors, including A Cheng, Eileen Chang, Han Shaogong, Jin Yong, and Zhu Tianxin, among others. The course is not a survey; rather, we will read an idiosyncratic selection of texts produced from out of the dizzying historical transformations of World War Two, the Cold War, and our own post-Mao, post-Chiang moment. In particular, we will ask why - in an age of globalization and economic effervescence - Chinese fiction remains haunted by questions of history, violence, death, and impermanence, be it of the self or the environment. All readings will be in Chinese, supplemented by occasional critical and biographical articles in English, and film screenings. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B (may be taken concurrently); good reading knowledge of modern Chinese; or consent of instructor. Previous coursework in Chinese or other literary traditions is also helpful, but not required.This course is designed to introduce students to important phonological and grammatical features in different periods in the history of the Chinese langauge. Rhyme dictionaries and rhyme tables will be examined for their contribution to our understanding of earlier stages in the phonological system of the Chinese language, and of changes in rhyming practice. Development of grammatical features in the history of the langugae will also be examined. Included as part of the course will be a cursory look at the origin of evolution of the Chinese writing system, literary poetry and its patterns, and earlier dictionaries. Other topics may also be included. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor. Recommended: Linguistics 5 or 100.This course is an introduction to media culture in twentieth-century China, with an emphasis on cinema and popular music. The course places these productions in historical and cultural context, examining the complex interwinement of culture, technology, and politics in China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan from the turn of the last century to the beginning of the twenty-first. Prerequisites: None. Previous coursework in Chinese language, literature, and history are helpful, but not required or assumed.This seminar will focus on the interaction between monks and lay Buddhists in later imperial China. Readings (in Chinese) will include selections from letters, literary collections, local gazetteers, and apologetics by authors such as Qisong (1007-1072), Su Shi (1037-1101), Dahui (1089-1163), and Song Lian (1310-1381). We will also consider literati critiques of Buddhism, and the interaction between Buddhism and the Daoxue movement. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and a good reading knowledge of classical Chinese; or consent of instructor.Like other classical texts in premodern China, the Classic of Poetry, or Shijing, became, in the successive generations of scholarship and discussion centered on it, not merely a static artifact—an anthology of songs from roughly the eleventh to sixth centuries BCE—but rather a source of interpretive and moral authority perpetually in need of reconstitution and re-explanation in the context of ever-shifting debates about language, history, and social and individual ethics. The voluminous body of literature that developed around this canonical text, with its specialized vocabularies of philological and philosophical exegesis and its often rather esoteric scholastic forms of argumentation, can appear somewhat forbidding, even to specialist scholars. Gaining conversancy with this literature, and gaining familiarity with the various mentalities of scriptural thought that went into producing it, however, can be of immense help to us in understanding the underlying logic of a wide range of premodern cultural practices and attitudes, both “elite” and “popular.” This seminar will take the form of a series of guided readings in the Shijing and its varied schools of interpretation, oriented towards developing just this sort of conversancy. In addition to extensive readings in the classic text itself and commentarial works directly appended to it, we will also consider the broader spectrum of literary production that explicitly or implicitly presents itself as “rewriting” or “supplement” to the classic. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and advanced reading knowledge of classical Chinese; or consent of instructor. Verbal and visual modernist aesthetics became urgent critical practices in China during the late 1920s-early 1930s.  Shanghai was experiencing the disjunctive spatial power of colonialist capitalism.  The modernizing May 4th Movement, which previously had called for a break with the past through Western science, realist literature and art, and cultural iconoclasm, had faltered by the late 1920s, while fragments of the rejected past remained uncannily present.  At the same time, the expansion of visual technologies of photography, illustrated magazines, and cinema, brought about a radical extension of the limits of perception and a surge in the production and circulation of images in everyday life.  Cultural producers were highly conscious of the changing relationships between texts and images brought about by these technologies and their implication in a rapidly globalizing culture through which the transmission of China’s own cultural past now appeared to be mediated.  Modernism was thus represented in Shanghai as a global aesthetic, and its formal practices were used to explore the limits of new modes of imaging and perception, as well as to re-compose Shanghai as a center of modernity in China vis-à-vis China’s own margins, even as Shanghai itself was constituted as lying on the margins of global modernity. Prerequisites: Graduate standing. Proficiency in modern Chinese language required to take course for 4 credits.A historical survey of the Buddhist tradition that focuses on the development of Buddhist doctrines, practices, and communities in South Asia, with its three main paths of Sravakayana, Mahayana and Vajrayana or Tantrism. Included will be selective outlooks on Buddhism in other regions (Tibet, Southeast Asia, East Asia) and on Buddhism in the modern world, both in its traditional environments in Asia and in the West. The course follows Buddhist communities from their origin as a group of world-renouncing ascetics through the development of large state- supported monastic communities. It traces Buddhist thought from its early expression as a set of practical teachings focusing on the attainment of liberation, to its systematic elaboration into comprehensive religio-philosophical theories. In discussing Buddhist practice, the course will highlight its broad variety, including the study and exegesis of scriptures, various forms of ritual and meditation, worship and prayer, as well as the rational justification of Buddhist teachings through argument and critical analysis. Prerequisites: None.This course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values sometimes provide a given framework for a narrative and sometimes provide the definition of transgressive acts. This is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None.A thematic course on Buddhist perspectives on nature and Buddhist responses to environmental issues. The first half of the course focuses on Buddhist cosmological and doctrinal perspectives on the place of the human in nature and the relationship between the salvific goals of Buddhism and nature. The second half of the course examines Buddhist ethics, economics, and activism in relation to environmental issues in contemporary Southeast Asia, East Asia, and North America. Prerequisites: None.Known for his visually striking compositions and an often shocking association of the sexual and the political, Oshima Nagisa was an acerbic critic of Japan's postwar humanism and of an older generation of filmmakers including Ozu Yasujiro and Kurosawa Akira. For Oshima, the aesthetic and socially melodramatic qualities of this generation meant that postwar Japan would miss the opportunity to probe the sources of its militarist history and its postwar complicity with American hegemony. This course examines Oshima's oeuvre, both within and against dominant understandings of auteur theory and international New Wave cinemas. In the selection of a single auteur, the course both demonstates and interrogates the value of an auteurist approach to film studies, a question that is especially appropriate given the importance that Japanese films and filmmakers played within the development of film "auteur" theory in France, Britain, and the United States. Complementing this auteurist approach, however, is a determination to understanding Oshima's work as part of an international circulating, politicized New Wave. In this respect, the course moves between both auteur and genre approaches to cinema studies. Prerequisites: Upper division or Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Known for his visually striking compositions and an often shocking association of the sexual and the political, Oshima Nagisa was an acerbic critic of Japan's postwar humanism and of an older generation of filmmakers including Ozu Yasujiro and Kurosawa Akira. For Oshima, the aesthetic and socially melodramatic qualities of this generation meant that postwar Japan would miss the opportunity to probe the sources of its militarist history and its postwar complicity with American hegemony. This course examines Oshima's oeuvre, both within and against dominant understandings of auteur theory and international New Wave cinemas. In the selection of a single auteur, the course both demonstates and interrogates the value of an auteurist approach to film studies, a question that is especially appropriate given the importance that Japanese films and filmmakers played within the development of film "auteur" theory in France, Britain, and the United States. Complementing this auteurist approach, however, is a determination to understanding Oshima's work as part of an international circulating, politicized New Wave. In this respect, the course moves between both auteur and genre approaches to cinema studies. Prerequisites: Upper division or Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.Designed to supplement 1A-1B, respectively, in order to facilitate students' listening proficiency. 1AL will cover a variety of listening strategies. 1BL is a continuation of 1AL where students will apply these strategies in listening activities.A course designed to be taken concurrently with 1B to help students improve overall kanji performance. The course will make the kanji learning process easier by providing exercises and background information about the relationships between characters and how they function.7B offers students the opportunity to consider a wide variety of prose fiction and poetry from Japan’s 19th through 21st centuries, that is, from the time of the Meiji Restoration (1868) until the present. About ten of the works will be read in their unabridged form. The first text we will discuss is what is often called the earliest Japanese work styled after the Western concept of the novel. The last work is a set of short stories exploring the impact of the Kobe earthquake. In between we will read authors who narrate pre-War, post-war and post-modern Japan. Rarely do these authors represent the most common values of their time but they always have a sharp understanding of the world within which they live. There will be abundant opportunity to explore Japanese social and cultural issues through the themes these authors set before the reader. This class is designed to include students with no background in Japan or the Japanese language. Prerequiste: None. This supplementary course is designed for students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to enable their acquisition of a better understanding of Japanese grammar in general and clause linkage in particular.For students who are concurrently enrolled in 10B to acquire a better understanding of kanji writing system and to improve overall kanji performance.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more at college level to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. It aims to develop further the vocabulary and knowledge of kanji and Japanese grammar through reading and discussing various topics related to Japanese culture. Students will research culture topics and give a short presentation on their findings. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess advanced ability in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their skills in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course focuses on perfecting reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students pursue their own projects based on extensive reading of materials in their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan are invited to the classroom to speak, their topics discussed afterwards. This provides a valuable opportunity for students to practice listening and speaking high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home is expected, and essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 111 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Writings in the Japanese vernacular constitute only a limited part of the total pre-modern Japanese written corpus. Until the twentieth century, the preferred medium for most historical texts and male diaries was Sino-Japanese (/kanbun/). Familiarity with the grammar of this extraordinarily rich tradition is therefore essential for all students of pre-modern Japanese disciplines. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A and Japanese 120; or consent of instructor.Born in a small village in southern Japan, Oe became the second postwar writer to with the Nobel Prize in Literature. While engaging such diverse Western writers and philosophers such as Dostoevsky, Sartre, Blake and Spinoza, Oe also looks to his rural background for core images and themes in his writing. His powerful commitment to his deformed son has been central to his literary explorations, as has his active participation on Japan’s political left. This course looks at various works from various times during Oe’s growth and change as a writer. We read both in his original Japan and English. In so doing, the course also explores the political and spiritual terrain of postwar Japan as seen by one of its most intellectually dynamic interpreters. Prerequisites: J100B (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), topic management, historical changes, and genetic origins. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100B (may be taken concurrently) or equivalent, or consent of instructor.The course examines the complex meanings of the ghost in modern Japanese literature and culture. Tracing the representations of the supernatural in drama, fiction, ethnography, and the visual arts, we explore how ghosts provide the basis for remarkable flights of imaginative speculation and literary experimentation. Topics include: storytelling and the loss of cultural identity, horror and its conversion into aesthetic pleasure, fantasy, and the transformation of the commonplace. We will consider historical, visual, anthropological, and literary approaches to the supernatural and raise cultural and philosophical questions crucial to an understanding of the figure and its role in the greater transformation of modern Japan (18th century to the present). Prerequisites: None.This course examines Japanese film, constantly questioning the ways in which it has been categorized as a national cinema. Issues examined include the transnational influences of modernist aesthetics on early cinema, the emergence of the Japanese studio system as rival and complement to Hollywood, Japanese films and global New Waves, the documentary tradition, and the political valence of contemporary cinema. We dedicate considerable attention to the three canonical directors of Japanese cinema—Ozu, Mizoguchi, and Kurosawa—to examine the different ways in which they are sutured within—as well as resist—the national cinema model. Also examined are central writers in English on Japanese film: Richie, Burch, Kirihara, Bordwell, and Yoshimoto as well as Cazdyn, Andrew, and Turim. All materials will be examined in historical, social, aesthetic, and political contexts.Prerequisites: None.This graduate course in Japanese Buddhist texts will provide students with an overview of the major genres of Japanese Buddhist primary material from canonical works, medieval doctrinal and sectarian writing, premodern Buddhist literary texts, institutional and social history documents, and early modern and modern Buddhist writings. Students will become introduced to the reference works and online resources necessary to read and translate these documents and research secondary materials written in modern Japanese. We will also have weekly secondary readings in Japanese and Western languages. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor./Man'yôshû/ (The Collection of a Myriad Leaves) is the oldest extant anthology of poetry in Japanese. With the bulk of its approximately 4,500 poems dating from the seventh and eighth centuries, it constitutes the inevitable starting point for any diachronic study of Japanese verse. The poems in the anthology provide the opportunity for literary archaeology of the first order, allowing us to disinter evidence about some of the most exciting dialectics in early Japanese literary history: between oral practice and the tentative beginnings of the written tradition, between religious ritual and literary art, between imported and native artistic systems, and between communal expression and the development of the individual literary consciousness. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Close reading of a variety of early modern literature, including works by authors including Sanyutei Encho, Ueda Akinari, Hiraga Gennai, Kyokutei Bakin, Tsuruya Nanboku, Jippensha Ikku, Tamenaga Shunsui, and Ihara Saikaku. The seminar will be joined periodically throughout the term by visiting scholars. Prerequisites: Permission of instructor required. Please email Alan Tansman at tansmana@berkeley.edu.Close reading of modern Japanese literary and cultural texts within their literary historical, cultural, historical, and theoretical contexts. Particular themes and time periods change with each seminar. Spring 2008 description not available. Prerequisites: Permission of instructor required. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Continuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.Korean 10B is a continuation of Korean 10A and will continue to use the materials and methods used in 10A. The aim of the course is to help the students develop the language skills necessary to pursue the study of Korean at a more advanced level. The course will introduce vocabulary and idioms beyond basic level, complex grammatical patterns, and varieties of speech styles. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.An advanced course in the reading and analysis of texts in modern Korean drawn from history, sociology, economics, etc. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to increase the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 111; or consent of instructor.The course examines a mode of representation called melodrama in literary and cinematic texts of Korea. Melodrama is an enduring cultural expression of modern Korea , a vehicle to cast and convey pressing social concerns, individual desires, political condition and historical changes in highly affective ways. The course encourages students to think critically of melodramatic logic and its implication in literary as well as film texts. Readings include literary texts (short fictions) in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This course examines representation of history and memory in South Korean cinema. Contemporary South Korean films demonstrate thematic preoccupation with the nation's history by rendering diverse stories of the past events and experiences. The cinematic rendition of the past registers different ways to project, remember and imagine the past, thereby actively creating the new senses and ideas of historical time. The goal of the course is to develop critical understanding of diverse temporalities of South Korean national cinema. Prerequisites: None.This course is an intensive introduction to both standard spoken Tibetan (Lhasa dialect) and written literary Tibetan. As such, it will serve the needs of students who intend to continue the study of modern Tibetan so as to function in a Tibetan-speaking environment, as well as the needs of students who will concentrate on classical Tibetan and its rich literature. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1A; or consent of instructor.This course is an intensive course in reading modern and classical Tibetan literature, with an emphasis on classical Buddhist texts. It builds on basic reading skills acquired in 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), and is designed to be taken either concurrently with 10A-10B (intermediate Tibetan) or independently. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A; or consent of instructor.The first part of the course focuses on popular religious practices and beliefs at the intersection of Buddhism and “folk religion”, taking as its starting point a viewing of Ulrike Koch's film “The Saltmen of Tibet,” a 1997 documentary that accompanies a group of nomads in eastern Tibet on their arduous annual trip for salt to a distant lake. The second part is designed as a historical survey of Buddhism in Tibet from its introduction around the 7th century to the end of the 19th century, dealing with the history of religious institutions, the close relation of religion and politics in Tibet, and the major schools of Tibetan Buddhism and their doctrines. The third and final part of the course deals with Tibetan Buddhism in the 20th century, centering around Luc Schaedler’s film “Angry Monk” (2005), a cinematic journey to present-day Tibet on the footsteps of the controversial figure Gendün Chöphel (1901-1951). Prerequisites: None.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AX; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1BX is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade, or 3) can speak a non-Mandarin dialect and Mandarin. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.Chinese 1BY, an elementary Mandarin Chinese course for non-Mandarin speaking Chinese dialect heritage learners, is a continuation of Chinese 1AY. The course provides further training in language skills. Linguistic forms and ways of using them are taught to meet learners' language needs. The course prepares Chinese dialect heritage learners to merge with Mandarin heritage learners at an intermediate level for continuous learning.one Five in-class hours and an additional one-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AY; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1BY is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 10AX, an intermediate-level course for Mandarin speakers. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, develops a functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 100AX, an advanced-level course for Mandarin speakers with intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The reading materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Continuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. The class meets on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, one hour a day. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AX; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1BX is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese-speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade, or 3) can speak a non-Mandarin dialect and Mandarin. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.Chinese 1BY, an elementary Mandarin Chinese course for non-Mandarin speaking Chinese dialect heritage learners, is a continuation of Chinese 1AY. The course provides further training in language skills. Linguistic forms and ways of using them are taught to meet learners' language needs. The course prepares Chinese dialect heritage learners to merge with Mandarin heritage learners at an intermediate level for continuous learning.one Five in-class hours and an additional one-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1AY; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1BY is for students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese, or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country in a home where a non-Mandarin Chinese dialect was spoken and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Test at ealc.berkeley.edu before enrolling. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Intermediate Chinese for Chinese heritage students with Mandarin Chinese background. The course guides students to use Chinese language knowledge to survey certain aspects of Chinese history and present society in the context of a target culture. Reading skills in the target language are further developed in order to interpret subtle meanings found in both oral and written texts. Different registers and discourses in spoken and written texts and genres of Chinese writing are further explored. Prerequisites: Chinese 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 100AX, an advanced-level course for Mandarin speakers with intermediate-level knowledge of reading and writing in Chinese. The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese society through reading materials and discussion. The reading materials include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Three one-hour meetings in class and two one-hour periods in the language or computer lab per week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Continuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.Korean 10B is a continuation of Korean 10A and will continue to use the materials and methods used in 10A. The aim of the course is to help the students develop the language skills necessary to pursue the study of Korean at a more advanced level. The course will introduce vocabulary and idioms beyond basic level, complex grammatical patterns, and varieties of speech styles. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is for students who have taken Elementary Chinese for Mandarin Speakers or who have similar language proficiency. It further helps students develop their Chinese language through various culturally-related topics. Students are provided opportunies to use the language knowledge learned in class in real world experiences.. Prerequisites: Chinese 1X; or consent of instructor.This course continues to help students develop their communicative competence in Mandarin Chinese by engaging in a variety of formal and informal communications. It trains students to use Mandarin more accurately and fluently in speaking and in writing and to become more competent and confident in reading and informal texts. It helps students connect with the knowledge and information of other disciplines through the study of Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 1Y; or consent of instructorPlease note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course continues to develop students' analytical skills, including advanced skills in interpreting texts and writing in different genres and styles. It guides students to use their linguistic knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in contemporary and historical economic, social, and political contexts. Prerequisites: Chinese 100XA; or consent of instructor.The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.Continuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is for students who have taken Elementary Chinese for Mandarin Speakers or who have similar language proficiency. It further helps students develop their Chinese language through various culturally-related topics. Students are provided opportunies to use the language knowledge learned in class in real world experiences.. Prerequisites: Chinese 1X; or consent of instructor.This course continues to help students develop their communicative competence in Mandarin Chinese by engaging in a variety of formal and informal communications. It trains students to use Mandarin more accurately and fluently in speaking and in writing and to become more competent and confident in reading and informal texts. It helps students connect with the knowledge and information of other disciplines through the study of Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 1Y; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course continues to develop students' analytical skills, including advanced skills in interpreting texts and writing in different genres and styles. It guides students to use their linguistic knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in contemporary and historical economic, social, and political contexts. Prerequisites: Chinese 100XA; or consent of instructor.The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in KoreanContinuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.    Introduction to Modern Chinese Literature and Culture. Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts. We will pay particular attention to the emergence of vibrant new urban and vernacular cultures in the late imperial period and their relation with classical traditions and literati culture, as well the revolutionary cultural transformations of the late 19th and 20th centuries. The course will both survey the literary and cultural topography that every serious student of China ought to know, while at the same time developing the critical reading and writing skills necessary to traverse and imaginatively engage with that historical terrain. All readings are in English translation. Students who are conversant in Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible. Prerequisites: None. Recommended: Chinese 7A. Intermediate Chinese. This course is designed to develop student's reading, writing, listening and speaking abilities in Mandarin Chinese. It teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A/B; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.   Intermediate Chinese for Mandarin Speakers. This course is for students who have taken Elementary Chinese for Mandarin Speakers or who have similar language proficiency. It further helps students develop their Chinese language through various culturally-related topics. Students are provided opportunies to use the language knowledge learned in class in real world experiences.. Prerequisites: Chinese 1X; or consent of instructor. Intermediate Chinese for Dialect Speakers. This course continues to help students develop their communicative competence in Mandarin Chinese by engaging in a variety of formal and informal communications. It trains students to use Mandarin more accurately and fluently in speaking and in writing and to become more competent and confident in reading and informal texts. It helps students connect with the knowledge and information of other disciplines through the study of Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 1Y; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.   Huang Seminar: Translingual and Transcultural Competence. This course provides specialized and rigorous instruction to enhance translingual and transcultural competence. It fosters observation of linguistic nuance and develops competence in subtle aspects of Chinese linguistic culture. Projects prepare students for intensive summer language study in China. Prerequisites: Open only to Huang Scholars.     Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.   Advanced Chinese for Heritage Learners. This course continues to develop students' analytical skills, including advanced skills in interpreting texts and writing in different genres and styles. It guides students to use their linguistic knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in contemporary and historical economic, social, and political contexts. Prerequisites: Chinese 100XA; or consent of instructor.    Readings in Modern Chinese - Social Sciences and Literature. The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.    Readings in Modern Chinese - Social Sciences and Literature. The emphasis of this course is on Chinese social, political, and journalistic readings. The readings are further supplemented by newspaper articles. Students are required to turn in essays written in journalistic style in Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.    Introduction to Literary Chinese. The second half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, continuing the study of grammatical structures and classical usage from the first semester, and introducing the use of basic reference sources. Readings for this semester will be drawn from a range of literary, philosophical, and historiographical texts through the Song Dynasty. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.    Fifth-Year Chinese B. This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.    Topics in Taoism. Daoism [also spelled “Taoism”] is the only organized religion ever to have arisen in China. It is commonly known as the “religion of immortality” because followers hoped to merge their bodies with the Dao, the basic life-force of the universe. This class examines a variety of Chinese “texts” (e.g., scriptures, paintings, rituals) to build a more profound understanding of religious Daoism in ancient, medieval, and modern China. No knowledge of the Chinese language, history, or religions is required. All texts will be read in English translation.    Readings in Medieval Prose. Description coming soon.Reading Taiwan. The island nation of Taiwan has become crucial and contested site for imagining Chinese modernity. The course is not a survey; rather, we will focus on a selection of texts from the Japanese colonial period, the Cold War era, to the post-Chiang pluralization of Taiwanese society and culture. We will cover canonical works of literature, as well as attending to the vibrant cinematic and popular cultures that have thrived on this multi-ethnic and multi-lingual island. Students should come away from the class with a better understanding not only of Taiwanese history, literature, and culture, but also new skills in the reading and analysis of textual and cultural artifacts. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor. Sex and Gender in Premodern Chinese Litearture. This course explores Chinese cultures of sex and gender from antiquity to the eighteenth century. We will look at how sex and gender are treated in the political, moral, medical, and religious discourses. Through a variety of literary genres (poetry, drama, short tales, full-length fiction), we will see the complexity of gender differences, the fluidity of desire, and ultimately the plasticity of the human body. These texts reveal how Chinese writers imaginatively examined and reinvented what it meant to be men and women. The course will focus on three interconnected sets of issues: the status of women, homoeroticism, and the formation of the body. Our discussion will be informed by historical and theoretical reflections on the modern regime of sexuality, contemporary issues in gender politics, and cross-cultural comparisons with ancient Greece and the Renaissance in Europe. Prerequisites: None.Seminar in Philological Analysis of Ancient Chinese Texts: "Han Dynasty Thought." Pre-Qin Chinese texts have long been studied both as sources for understanding both religious (e.g., Shang Oracle bones and Zhou ritual and divination practices) and philosophical thought (e.g., Mohist Logic and Confucian Ethics) in early China. Han sources, for a variety of reasons, are less often approached in this way. Students in this course will study Han texts chronologically, both in terms of the contexts of their production and transmission, and at how they relate and develop earlier discourses about self formation and virtue, about Heaven's Mandate (tianming 天命) and historical time, about literature and canon, about Nature and knowledge, and about government and administration. In doing so, we will seek to both understand Han sources contextualized in the world of the Han dynasty, and extend the history of religious and philosophical thought into the Han. Students will be expected to create an annotated translation of a major, previously untranslated, Han text as the final project for the course. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Readings in Chinese Buddhist Texts. This seminar is an intensive introduction to various genres of Buddhist literature in classical Chinese, including translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian scriptures. Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiographies, and sectarian works. It is intended for graduate students who already have some facility in classical Chinese. It will also serve as a tools and methods course, covering the basic reference works and secondary scholarship in the field of East Asian Buddhism. The content of the course will be adjusted from semester to semester to best accommodate the needs and interests of students. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Texts on the Civilization of Medieval China: "Knowing Others, and Being Understood, in Early and Medieval China." What does it mean to “know” a person, and precisely how does one make oneself “known” in advantageous ways? The earliest writings of Chinese civilization manifest a profound appreciation for the skill of discernment—particularly when applied to people. Whether one looks at the dialogues of the Analects or Mencius, or the early anecdotes found in the Liezi, the Guoyu, or the Zuozhuan, the value of astute character assessment appears as a prime requirement for the aspiring worthy. Indeed, interest in this question pervades anomaly and classical tales, as well. Conversely, understandable concern for how one is apt to be understood by others, whether in contemporary times or the future, shapes all manner of modes of self-presentation, from letters, anecdotes, and prefaces to, most importantly, poetry. This course is going to examine the intersection between the discourse of character assessment and modes of self-presentation from early times through the Tang. Besides historical, philosophical, and literary works, we will also pay some attention to visual texts, such as portraiture, and miscellaneous documents, including writings on physiognomy. Prerequisites: Graduate standing, and competence in reading Classical Chinese; or consent of instructor.     Late Imperial Fiction and Drama. Emotion takes place. It is not simply projected onto space or attached to a location, humanizing the external alienating reality with meaning; rather, in a more fundamental sense, emotion per se is spatial. This course reconceives emotion not as an inner state of mind but as a spatio-ontological structure that has a history. Covering literature, architecture, ritual practice, and intellectual discourse in antiquity to eighteenth-century in China, we pay special attention to the transformation of medieval dreamscapes to early modern theatricality. The goal is to chart an alternative history of Chinese poetics, performance, and narrativity, explores diverse models of subject and community formation, and put on trial recent approaches of cognitive psychology and affect theory. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor. Modern Chinese Cultural Studies: "Intermedial Spaces and Urban Modernity in China." From teahouses, rooftop gardens, to shikumen buildings, from skyscrapers, world expo, to RMB City, cinema has been an integral part of Chinese cities from its very introduction to its historical permutations. Taking the contiguous space between cinema and the city as the concentrated and contested site, this class situates a century of Chinese cinema within key issues of urban modernity and intermedial dynamic. Across the geopolitical divide, we will explore cinematic renditions of Shanghai, Beijing, Hong Kong, Taipei, Guangzhou, and Chongqing accompanying varied locations and transformations of cinema. The class will engage theories of space, architecture, and media while investigate how cinema recasts questions of gender, class, and geopolitics in cinema’s own transformations and its changing dynamic with other media. All films supplied with English subtitles and all readings will be in English or supplied with English translations. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.    Freshman/Sophomore Seminar: "Chinese, Korean, and Japanese in Bay Area linguistic landscapes." This seminar explores the power of visible languages in the Bay Area—the “linguistic landscape” of storefronts, street signs, billboards, and other spaces of public display. Considering such realities as the nationwide English Only movement and California’s ban against bilingual education, we will ask how meanings that are written into and read from bilingual signs relate to controversial issues of societal multilingualism, in the U.S. and beyond. Focusing on the history and present state of Chinese, Korean, and Japanese in the landscape, the seminar will balance in-class discussions with off-campus field trips. Readings and guest speakers will challenge students to understand the significance of visible language through the descriptive and interpretive lenses of academic fields including applied linguistics, ethnic studies, human and cultural geography, and visual culture studies. In dialog with other participants in the On the Same Page Fiat Lux program, students in this seminar will produce multimedia projects on a topic of interest, while engaging questions of visual and linguistic representation in their own work. Readings and discussions will be in English; ability in Chinese, Korean, Japanese or other languages is an asset but not required.Catastrophe, Memory, and Narrative: Comparative Responses to Atrocity in the Twentieth Century: "On War and its Representations…" This seminar addresses cultures of war across the globe (in particular in Japan and Europe) by exploring the relationship between the shaping forces of war (and other forms of violence) and a variety of cultural forms, including fiction, poetry, feature and documentary film, photography, popular culture, music and art. How do these cultural products reveal the forces of war and violence? In what ways are they about war even when they seem not to be? How do cultural documents of war reveal the struggle for mastery of trauma, the difficulty of capturing violent events, the development of an ethics of Human Rights? Prerequisites: Prerequisites: Interested students should send a brief note describing their interests to Alan Tansman (tansmana@berkeley.edu) and Kent Puckett (kpuckett@berkeley.edu). Space is limited.Dynamics of Romantic Core Values in East Asian Premodern Literature and Contemporary Film. This course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values might provide a narrative framework or, contrarily, the definition of transgressive acts. This analysis is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None. [WEBSITE]   History of the Culture of Tea in China and Japan. This course uses the framework of the history of tea in China and Japan to consider how religion, philosophy and the arts (especially literature, ceramics, garden design and architecture) stimulated and were stimulated by practices related to the consumption of tea. It considers tea's role in defining elite and powerful social circles and intercourse between different centers of power. It also considers how each country uses tea to represent its traditions in particular ways. Understanding the tea culture of these countries informs students of important and enduring aspects of both cultures, offers an opportunity to consider how tea ritual draws on religion and art to promote specific social practice, creates a forum for cultural comparisons between the two countries, and, provides an example of the transfer of cultural knowledge from China to Japan. Prerequisites: None. [WEBSITE]    Tantric Traditions of Asia. The emergence of the tantras in seventh and eighth-century India marked a watershed for religious practice throughout Asia. These esoteric scriptures introduced complex new ritual technologies that transformed the religious traditions of India, from Brahmanism to Jainism and Buddhism, as well as those of Southeast Asia, Tibet, Mongolia, China, Korea, and Japan. This course provides an overview of tantric religion across these regions. It begins with an examination of the tantras' origins in India and tantric Shaivism in particular. From here, the course moves to the esoteric Buddhist traditions of China and Japan, to consider how the tantric developments of India came to be understood within these distant cultures. Returning to India, we look at the later tantric developments of the Mahayoga, Yogini, and Kalacakra tantras. Finally, the course closes with a unit on the largely indigenous Tibetan tradition of the Great Perfection (or Dzogchen). Prerequisites: One course in Buddhist Studies or with consent of instructor. Prerequisites: None.Elementary Japanese. Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to learn hiragana, katakana, and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, the students should be able to describe themselves, their family and friends, and to talk about everyday events with basic vocabulary and structures. They also should be able to read simple passages in Japanese. Prerequisites: None.Introduction to Modern Japanese Literature and Culture. An introduction to Japanese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. 7B provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequistes: None. Intermediate Japanese. In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.Advanced Japanese. Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.    100S. Japanese for Sinologists. Students will be trained to read, analyze, and translate modern Japanese scholarship on Chinese subjects. A major purpose of the course is to prepare students to take reading examinations in Japanese. The areas of scholarship to be covered are: politics, popular culture and religion, sociology and history, as well as areas suggested by students who are actively engaged in research projects. Two readings in each area will be assigned: one by the instructor and the second by a student participant. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; Japanese 10B and Chinese 100B; or consent of instructor.100X. Advanced Japanese for Heritage Learners. This course helps heritage learners of Japanese who have completed 10X to develop further their linguistic and cultural competencies. More sophisticated linguistic forms are introduced and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, and different genres of Japanese reading and writing are practiced. The materials covered are equivalent to those of 100A-100B.. Prerequisites: Japanese 10X; or consent of instructor. 102. Fourth-Year Readings: Japanese Culture. This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more at college level to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. It aims to develop further the vocabulary and knowledge of kanji and Japanese grammar through reading and discussing various topics related to Japanese culture. Students will research culture topics and give a short presentation on their findings. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B; or consent of instructor.112. Fourth-Year Readings: Japanese History. This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Students read a variety of texts on Japanese history as sources for discussions to deepen their understanding of Japanese society and people. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.112. Fifth-Year Japanese B. This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess advanced ability in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their skills in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course focuses on perfecting reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students pursue their own projects based on extensive reading of materials in their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan are invited to the classroom to speak, their topics discussed afterwards. This provides a valuable opportunity for students to practice listening and speaking high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home is expected, and essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 111 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.144. Edo Literature. This course provides an opportunity to read at length premodern, literary Japanese of the Edo period. We take as our primary text the famous travel journal of the 17th century, Oku no hosomichi (‘Narrow Roads of the Interior’, ca. 1694) by Matsuo Basho (1644–1694). Basho is the preeminent haiku master of Japan and Oku no hosomichi is widely seen as the best of his prose works as well as one of the great classics of Japan. The text is haibun—a mixture of concise prose passages and haiku. Both prose and poem are given full consideration. Both grammar and literary qualities will be discussed. The course also presents Basho beyond the borders of this one text, including his view of sabi (rustic beauty). The nature of the text also requires that we take up as well the more general topic of haiku principles. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A and Japanese 120; or consent of instructor.159. Contemporary Japanese Literature. This course will examine how Japanese writers, filmmakers and artists responded to the atrocities of the Pacific War. We will study works representing the aftermath of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, experiences on the frontline, and attempts to account for both personal and collective involvement in the abuses of war. We will pay particular attention to how the form of literature, film, and art reflects experiences of trauma and serves to accept or defer responsibility. Primary readings will be in Japanese with some available in English translation. Prerequisites: 100B (may be taken concurrently) or equivalent, or consent of instructor.161. Introduction to Japanese Linguistics: Usage. This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), topic management, historical changes, and genetic origins. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100B (may be taken concurrently) or equivalent, or consent of instructor.185. Introduction to Japanese Cinema. This course will offer a survey of Japanese cinema from its earliest days to contemporary anime (animated film). Providing the basic tools for analyzing film language, the course begins by analyzing the interactions between early Japanese film and early Hollywood. We then consider the development of Japanese film, discussing style and structures of connotation, figurative meaning and political critique, the uses of the historical past and ideology, and the roles of youth culture and views of the family. We consider the (sometimes anomalous) place of important individual directors, with a special emphasis on 1960s New Wave cinema and experimental film. We also discuss current critical debates about broader trends in Japanese film and culture, as they illuminate the construction and ruptures in notions of Japanese identity. Prerequisites: None.234. Seminar in Classical Japanese Drama: “Noh Texts and Contexts.” The seminar will cover one or more noh plays each week with attention focused on the diverse nature of the genre. Along with some of the classic aesthetic masterpieces – in particular the “dream vision plays” (mugen nô) attributed to Zeami and Zenchiku – the seminar will study plays by later authors, works of unknown attribution and plays that are not part of the standard contemporary performance tradition (bangai nô). Prerequisites: One year of classical Japanese; or consent of instructor.259. Seminar in Postwar Japanese Literature Description coming soon. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.1B. Elementary Korean for Non-heritage Speakers. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1A, Korean 1B will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation. Students will also learn about the Korean culture.. Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.1BX. Elementary Korean for Heritage Speakers. Continuation of Elementary Korean 1AX. Building on the basic grammar of the Korean language learned from Korean 1AX, Korean 1BX will introduce more vocabulary and expressions that are useful for everyday conversation as well as for improving reading and writing skills of students. Students who wish to enroll in K1BX without prior taking K1AX will need to have an oral interview and take a short written proficiency test on the first day of the class. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.7B. Introduction to Modern Korean Literature and Culture. This course explores various aspects of modern Korean literature and culture in the twentieth century. We will examine a range of literary works as well as art and film, in the contexts of colonialism and nationalism, the Korean War and national division, and the various issues that emerged in the process of modernization. No previous course work in Korean or Korean studies required. All readings are in English translation.Through critical analysis of the works of fiction, poetry, and visual media, we will consider the following set of matters: 1) how the issues of national identity, gender, and socio-economic class are articulated in a diverse array of texts; 2) the complex relations between colonialism and a rise of modernist thinking about the national culture, and between cultural production and formation of identity; 3) modern views on urban and rural space; and 4) how the major events in modern Korean history (colonial occupation, war, urban unrest, political violence, dislocation and relocation) have been represented and remembered in literary texts and in popular culture. Prerequisites: None.10B. Intermediate Korean. Korean 10B is a continuation of Korean 10A and will continue to use the materials and methods used in 10A. The aim of the course is to help the students develop the language skills necessary to pursue the study of Korean at a more advanced level. The course will introduce vocabulary and idioms beyond basic level, complex grammatical patterns, and varieties of speech styles. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.10BX. Internediate Korean for Heritage Speakers. A second-year course in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.100B. Advanced Korean. Continuation of Advanced Korean 100A using similar methods and format to 100A. Readings in modern Korean selected as appropriate for the advanced Korean course, i.e., presupposing two and one-half years of college-level Korean. A variety of texts from textbooks, essays, journals, and newspapers will be introduced. About 100 Sino-Korean characters will be systematically introduced. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor. 100BX. Advanced Korean for Heritage Speakers. Advanced Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background. Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.102. Fourth-Year Readings – Social Sciences and History. An advanced course in the reading and analysis of texts in modern Korean drawn from history, sociology, economics, etc. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B; or consent of instructor.112. Fifth-Year Korean B. This course is designed to increase the students' proficiency to advanced-high level in all aspects of modern Korean; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of Korea-related fields. Text materials are drawn from authentic sources including modern Korean literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included in the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to student interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form at the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Korean 111; or consent of instructor.186. Introduction to Korean Cinema. This undergraduate course offers a historical overview of Korean cinema from its colonial development to the present renaissance. It covers Korean film aesthetics, major directors, film movements, genre, censorship issues and industrial transformation as well as global circulation and transnational reception. In an effort to read film as sociocultural texts, various topics will be discussed, including colonialism, authoritarianism, modernization, national partition, family, youth, sexuality, gender, cultural tradition, individualism, etc. How Korean films have functioned as a cultural medium to construct and disseminate ideas and ideals of Korean-ness is given special consideration. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: none10B. Intermediate Tibetan. This course, a continuation of 1A-1B (elementary Tibetan), is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan. The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Prerequisite: Tibetan 10A or equivalent; or consent of instructor.100S. Advanced Tibetan Conversation. This course is designed for advanced students of Tibetan language.  Its goal is to provide an opportunity for students to further develop their colloquial Tibetan conversation skills.  More sophisticated linguistic forms are used and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics, with a particular focus on Buddhist-related subjects toward the end of the term.  Primary emphasis will be on the Lhasa dialect of Tibetan, though some variant dialects may also be introduced. Prerequisite: Tibetan 10B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.C114. Tibetan Buddhism. This course is an introduction to the history, institutions, doctrines, and ritual practices of Buddhism in Tibet. The course will progress along two parallel tracks, one chronological and the other thematic, providing on the one hand a sense of the historical development of Tibetan Buddhism, and on the other a general overview of some central themes.  Along the historical track, the course proceeds from Buddhism's initial arrival into Tibet through to the present day, with each week addressing another period in this history.  At the same time, each week will focus on a given theme that relates to the historical period in question.  Themes include tantric myth, 'treasure' (terma) revelation, hidden valleys, the Dalai Lamas, exile, and more. Prerequisites: None.C224. Readings in Tibetan Buddhist Texts. The seminar will explore the development of early tantric Buddhism of the eighth through eleventh centuries. The central readings will be in classical Tibetan, some from the Dunhuang archive, though they will be supplemented by secondary sources in English. Though we will be reading in Tibetan, the focus will be on ritual developments in India. Students should have a strong ability to read classical Tibetan. Prerequisites: Graduate standing.A continuation of Chinese 1A, Chinese 1B develops listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese, using pinyin and simplified characters. Five hours in class, two hours in the language laboratory, and one required half-hour tutorial meeting every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: Chinese 1B is for students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts. We will pay particular attention to the emergence of vibrant new urban and vernacular cultures in the late imperial period and their relation with classical traditions and literati culture, as well the revolutionary cultural transformations of the late 19th and 20th centuries. The course will both survey the literary and cultural topography that every serious student of China ought to know, while at the same time developing the critical reading and writing skills necessary to traverse and imaginatively engage with that historical terrain. All readings are in English translation. Students who are conversant in Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible. Prerequisites: None. Recommended: Chinese 7A.The course, a continuation of Chinese 10A, is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. Additional time is required for tutorials and language lab. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor. Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes beginThis course is for students who have taken Elementary Chinese for Mandarin Speakers or who have similar language proficiency. It further helps students develop their Chinese language through various culturally-related topics. Students are provided opportunies to use the language knowledge learned in class in real world experiences.. Prerequisites: Chinese 1X; or consent of instructor.This course continues to help students develop their communicative competence in Mandarin Chinese by engaging in a variety of formal and informal communications. It trains students to use Mandarin more accurately and fluently in speaking and in writing and to become more competent and confident in reading and informal texts. It helps students connect with the knowledge and information of other disciplines through the study of Chinese. Prerequisites: Chinese 1Y; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.In this seminar, we will plunge into the pleasure of reading Jin Yong —one of the most popular martial arts and chivalry (wu xia) fiction writers in twentieth century Chinese literature. We will try to understand the complex ways in which the values represented by the martial hero—honor, courage, loyalty, truthfulness, disregard for fame and wealth, and so on—relate to and interact with the commercial world in late imperial China and our modern world. Jin Yong’s last novel The Deer and the Cauldron (Lu ding ji) will provide a focal point for our inquiry. We will also examine a short story by the modern Chinese writer Shi Zhecun’s, and Ang Lee’s film Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon to bring in other perspectives on the relation between the martial hero and the modern world. Prerequisites: Freshman or Sophomore standing.The goal of the course is to introduce modern Chinese culture while developing competence in reading, speaking and writing standard modern Chinese. The readings include stories, essays, and plays, mostly by leading writers of recent decades. Students prepare in advance, then read and discuss in Chinese in class. Literary aspects are discussed in addition to problems of vocabulary and syntax. A half-hour tutorial meeting is required every week. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course continues to develop students' analytical skills, including advanced skills in interpreting texts and writing in different genres and styles. It guides students to use their linguistic knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in contemporary and historical economic, social, and political contexts. Prerequisites: Chinese 100XA; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to elevate abilities in speaking, reading, listening, and writing. Students will read the works of famous Chinese writers. Movie adaptations of these writings are also used. Students' writings will be circulated, and students will act in plays they write. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to elevate abilities in speaking, reading, listening, and writing. Students will read the works of famous Chinese writers. Movie adaptations of these writings are also used. Students' writings will be circulated, and students will act in plays they write. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or 100XB; or consent of instructor.Built on the foundation of Chinese 110A, which has focused on grammar learning through brief excerpts from ancient works, this course introduces students to longer and more complex essays in Classical Chinese including philosophical treatises, biographies, and fictions from Ancient to Late Medieval China. Samples of regular verses will also be covered. Students will be trained to use dictionaries, categorized compilations (leishu), and annotated editions to facilitate reading comprehension. The goal is to equip students with independent abilities to explore advanced Classical Chinese texts. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to bring up the students to advanced-high competence in all aspects of modern Chinese; it aims to prepare students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Radio and TV broadcasts will also be included among the teaching materials. Texts will be selected, in part, according to the students' interests. With the instructor's guidance, students will conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. The research projects will be presented both orally and in written form by the end of the semester. Prerequisites: Chinese 102; or consent of instructor. Among our sources of early Chinese poetic tradition, the Chuci (or “Songs of Chu”) may be considered an unruly and often problematic younger sibling to the canonical Shijing (or “Classic of Poetry”). The poems of the Shijing tend to foreground “horizontal” relations among members of social groups (family, clan, state); the view of poetry that takes shape around this collection is one that emphasizes harmony, balance, and the proper regulation of desires as means of preserving the stability of a larger political order. In the Chuci, on the other hand, even in poems written to vent political grievance, the language and the landscape of imagination that unfolds is dominated by “vertical” connections: contacts, sometimes anguishingly tenuous and fleeting, sometimes overwhelmingly powerful, between humans and divine or cosmic powers. If the Shijing projects a world of rationality, sobriety, and balance, in the Chuci we glimpse poetry as a visionary language of divine possession and altered states of consciousness.Reading the Chuci is a uniquely valuable way of learning about the mythology, cosmology, and religious rites of Warring States (5th–3rd centuries BCE) Chu culture, and its survivals in early imperial music, religion, and politics. In the dialogue that unfolds in later imitation of and commentary on the Chuci, moreover, we witness both the struggles that generations of writers underwent to come to terms with this problematic anthology (and with Qu Yuan, its legendary central poet-suicide), as well as the uses they made of Chuci language and references to give expression to the wilder flights of their own imaginations. Prerequisites: Chinese 110B; or consent of instructor. Students with strong interest in the topic who lack the requisite language preparation may arrange to take the course while preparing readings primarily or exclusively in translation.This course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Chinese. We will read samples from a variety of genres, including early Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, indigenous Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, and hagiography. The course will also serve as an introduction to resource materials used in the study of Chinese Buddhist texts, and students will be expected to make use of a variety of reference tools in preparation for class. Readings in Chinese will be supplemented by a range of secondary readings in English on Mahayana doctrine and Chinese Buddhist history. Prerequisites: This course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Chinese, and at least one semester of Classical Chinese (Chinese 110A) is prerequisite for enrollment. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful but not required.Chinese cities are the sites of complicated global/local interconnections as the nation is increasingly incorporated into the world system. Understanding Chinese cities is the key to analyzing the dramatic transformation of Chinese society and culture. This course is designed to teach students to think about Chinese cities in more textured ways. We will trace a number of key themes (the social construction of space, the politics of planning, the invention of traditions, and the relation between space, knowledge, and power) across a variety of materials. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.Ideals of good governance are a core concern of many brands of traditional Chinese thought. The image of the ruler whose authority is exercised in harmony with the desires and interests of the society at large and of the broader cosmos plays a key role not only in theories of governance per se but also in thought about ethics and psychology, since the art of government as exercised by the ruler is persistently viewed as an analogue to the art of individual self-cultivation. For many of these same reasons, however, there is also from quite early on a fascination with the bad ruler. On the one hand, bad rulers serve as negative examples just as good rulers serve as positive examples: they show the dangers and errors that threaten the ideal balance between ruler and ruled. On the other, however, the bad ruler also provides an imaginative space for thinking about extremes of human will, offering an outlet for fantasy and vicarious gratification of desires that normally remain taboo. Prerequisites: None.This course will follow a generally chronological order, beginning with the early legends of the “classic” bad rulers Jie and Zhou (last kings respectively of the Xia and Shang dynasties) and King Li of the Zhou—bad kings whose legends took shape hand-in-hand with the Eastern Zhou moral and political theories (such as the theory of the “Mandate of Heaven”) that were to remain foundational for much later thought and writing—and continuing to consider the complexes of legend, fantasy, and debate that surrounded rulers such as Qin Shihuang, Emperor Wu of the Han, and Emperor Yang of the Sui dynasty. Wu Zetian, the single female emperor in Chinese history, and the renowned and controversial Tang emperor Xuanzong, become the subjects of rich, long-lived, and evolving traditions of retelling and rewriting. The Song emperor Huizong, whose reign and life ended with the capture of the Northern Song capital by “barbarian” Jurchen invaders, was renowned for his cultural sophistication and the splendor of his court; at the same time, his rule was to become the setting for the fantasies of moral chaos and political violence that became the “outlaws of the marsh” stories of stage and fiction in the late imperial popular imagination. Prerequisites: None.This course explores Chinese cultures of sex and gender from antiquity to the seventeenth century. Primary materials, all in English translation, include moral treatises, medical guides, religious canons, and drama and fiction. We concentrate on three interconnected issues: women’s status, homoeroticism, and the human body. Our discussion will be informed by cross-cultural comparisons with ancient Greece, Renaissance England, and Contemporary America. In contrast to our modern regime of sexuality, which collapses all the three aforementioned issues into the issue of identity intrinsic to the body, we will see how the early Chinese regime of sexual act evolved into the early modern regime of emotion that concerned less inherent identities than a media culture of life-style performance. Prerequisites: None.How can we understand and analyze the aesthetics and politics of sound - both musical and otherwise - in Chinese cultures? Through auditory and textual explorations of both musical discourse and discourses on music, this course will trace the ways in which music has been produced, understood, and debated across a broad swath of Chinese history. How has sound served as an instrument of social power, political protest, literary expression, philosophical speculation, commercial exploitation, pleasure and desire? What kinds of stakes are involved in the production, consumption, and interpretation of both noise and organized sound? Does sonic culture have a history, and if so, how can we use literary texts as a means of listening to the music and the auditory landscapes of cultures predating the age of sound recording?We will attempt to answer this set of questions with reference to both premodern and modern Chinese sonic and literary cultures. We will begin by familiarizing ourselves with recent methodologies for the study of sonic culture, and then continue on to a consideration of the conceptualization of both naturally occurring sound and music in a diverse set of early and medieval Chinese texts. In the Confucian classics, music — as rite, as figure for cosmic order, and as the basis of traditional Chinese poetics — is an essential aspect of social and political theory. In the Daoist textual tradition, moreover, listening emerges as a central hermeneutic and philosophical problem: how can we understand other people and other worlds by way of the auditory realm? We will examine the way in which these discourses resonate in Chinese poetic practice, as well as the ways in which the noise of urban culture and the rise of a commodified popular music change Chinese musical life in the Tang dynasty and beyond. In the second half of the course, we turn toward an exploration of Chinese musical modernity within the larger context of global histories of colonialism, capitalism, and the dissemination of technologies for the recording and reproduction of sound in the 20th century. Topics to be covered will include Confucian and Daoist music theory, poetry and music, the introduction of Western music into China in the 19th and 20th centuries, its impact on traditional musics, the transformation of sonic culture by the gramophone and the cinema, the emergence of a variety of urban popular musics, the revolutionary role of mass-mediated sound in the articulation of political movements such as the Cultural Revolution, and the soundscapes of recent Chinese films from Taiwan, Hong Kong, and the PRC. Prerequisites: Chinese 7A or B, and/or previous college-level coursework in either literature or music.This course sets out to examine a set of “focus chapters” from the Zhuangzi along several dimensions: 1) in the context of Warring States thought, 2) as independent stories that need to be puzzled through and read critically, and 3) tracing the influence of those chapters on subsequent periods of Chinese thought. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.This course offers graduate students focusing on the literature and history of traditional China a systematic, hands-on introduction to the print and electronic resources necessary for conducting advanced research in these fields. In addition to being introduced to the history of Chinese bibliography and “sinology,” students will learn to use the vast array of ever expanding resources, and to consider what research questions these resources facilitate, and what sorts of questions remain relatively unexplored. Prerequisites: Graduate standing, and competence in reading Classical Chinese; or consent of instructor.What is the city? Is it a space, a place, a process, or practice? Is it actual or virtual? How do we demarcate the spatial and temporal limits of the city? How does the city become a unit of social space and experience? How does such a unit register both social contiguity and tension in spatial terms and recast relations of gender, class, race, and other power configurations such as the global and local? How are the changing experience of the city perceived and mediated through film and other media? How do media technologies and their aesthetic articulations create and occupy actual and virtual spaces of the city and contribute to its demise and transformations? Each class will be taught jointly by both instructors. It will feature a simultaneous film program, as well as well as presentations by prominent guest speakers, whose presentations will be open to the wider campus community. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.Taking the city as the concentrated and contested site, this class examines key issues of urban modernity and postmodernity at the intersection of urban planning, architecture, and film and media. The purpose of this jointly-taught doctoral-level seminar is to examine the fundamental precepts of approaches to urban theory, method, and analysis that characterize disciplines in the humanities and environmental design. Its specific goal is to explore the extent to which integrating the diversity of these approaches is possible and/or desirable, and the extent to which this integration could advance understanding, research practices, and pedagogy in global urban humanities disciplines.Each class will be taught jointly by both instructors. It will feature a simultaneous film program, as well as well as presentations by prominent guest speakers, whose presentations will be open to the wider campus community. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.This course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values might provide a narrative framework or, contrarily, the definition of transgressive acts. This analysis is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None. [WEBSITE]This course will explore some of the most difficult bioethical issues confronting the world today from the perspective of traditional values embedded in the cultural history of India, China, and Japan as evidenced in their religions, legal codes, and political history. Possible topics include population control, abortion, sex-selection, euthanasia, suicide, genetic manipulation, brain-death, and organ transplants. Prerequisites: None.While including the monastic Theravada traditions of Sri Lanka and Thailand, this class will focus on the Mahāyāna tradition of the Kathmandu Valley of Nepal, which here—uniquely in South Asia—has survived till the present day. We will approach this tradition by examining particular themes such as Buddhist monasticism and its interaction with the laity, the adaptation to the caste system, the cult of stupas and images, festivals of Buddhists deities, life-cycle and other rituals, the tradition's narrative literature, etc. Exploring continuities and ruptures, Nepalese Buddhism will be contrasted with Theravada Buddhism. For this we will draw on material from Sri Lanka and Thailand, and consider the recent introduction of Theravada Buddhism to the Kathmandu Valley, and the impact of Buddhist modernism. In this way the class will not only make sense of a complex religious field—the Kathmandu valley where Buddhism exists alongside Hinduism and indigenous traditions—but also allow for more general insights into Buddhism and how it functions in society. Prerequisites: None.This course explores East Asian Cinema from the perspective of film genre. In particular, the course examines East Asian genre films as active interaction with the circulation of global film genres as well as mass mediated engagement with specific economic, social, and political histories of East Asia. We will study contemporary theories of film genre, examine how the case of East Asian genre films complicate existing theories while paying due attention to the parallel transnational traffics--between East Asian Cinema and global film genre, and across East Asian Cinema in their history of cultural and economic flow as well as political confrontation. We will integrate our investigations of genre-specific questions (industry, style, reception, spectatorship, affect) with those of gender, ethnicity, power as well as nation and transnational/transregional identity. Prerequisites: None.Continuation of Elementary Japanese 1A using the same general format (written and oral/aural quizzes every Friday) and textbook. Emphasis is on spoken, reading, and written Japanese. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework, in-class final examination, and class participation. Prerequisites: Japanese 1A; or consent of instructor.This course provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, film, visual culture, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers, filmmakers and other creators of culture worked within their aesthetic forms as they responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the changing nature of Japanese aesthetic form, shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, the 1960s, nuclear Japan, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B and Japanese 10A in order to express a wider range of ideas, and will study the new structures and vocabulary necessary to express such ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. Prerequisites: Japanese 10A; or consent of instructor.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.This course helps heritage learners of Japanese who have completed 10X to develop further their linguistic and cultural competencies. More sophisticated linguistic forms are introduced and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, and different genres of Japanese reading and writing are practiced. The materials covered are equivalent to those of 100A-100B.. Prerequisites: Japanese 10X; or consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for three years or more at college level to improve their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. It aims to develop further the vocabulary and knowledge of kanji and Japanese grammar through reading and discussing various topics related to Japanese culture. Students will research culture topics and give a short presentation on their findings. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B; or consent of instructor.This course provides further development of reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills to enable students to express their points of view and construct argumentative discourse. Students read a variety of texts on Japanese history as sources for discussions to deepen their understanding of Japanese society and people. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course provides focused, high-level language training for those students who possess advanced ability in the modern Japanese language. Students will improve their skills in reading, writing, speaking and listening in their areas of specialty and in fields of particular interest to them. The course has a dual-track approach, requiring the completion of both class-wide and individually designed projects. The balance of the course focuses on perfecting reading and writing skills. With the instructor’s assistance, students pursue their own projects based on extensive reading of materials in their areas of specialization. These projects will be presented orally to the class. Further, when possible, visiting scholars from Japan are invited to the classroom to speak, their topics discussed afterwards. This provides a valuable opportunity for students to practice listening and speaking high-level, educated Japanese. Committed study at home is expected, and essential for success in this course. Prerequisites: Japanese 111 or equivalent; or consent of instructor.Writings in the Japanese vernacular constitute only a limited part of the total pre-modern Japanese written corpus. Until the twentieth century, the preferred medium for most historical texts and male diaries was Sino-Japanese (/kanbun/). Familiarity with the grammar of this extraordinarily rich tradition is therefore essential for all students of pre-modern Japanese disciplines. We will cover the basics of /kanbun/ grammar and then read parts of court diaries and a historical account. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A and Japanese 120; or consent of instructor.This class provides an opportunity to read and discuss some of the central ideas that Ōe Kenzaburō (1935– ) has developed over his writing career. We will be read primarily fiction written from the early days of his writing in 1957 through about 1994, when he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature. We will focus on his attitude towards family and the disadvantaged and, through these themes, consider his ideas about marginalized individuals and social classes. We will pay close attention to how his concepts have developed or otherwise changed over time. We read both in English translation and his original modern Japanese. Prerequisites: J100B (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor. [WEBSITE]This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), topic management, historical changes, and genetic origins. Students are required to have advanced knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: 100B (may be taken concurrently) or equivalent, or consent of instructor.Recent research suggests that reading “high discourse” literature improves a reader’s “emotional intelligence” by enhancing the ability to construct a “Theory of Mind” (TOM) of others—that is, to make a good estimate of what they are thinking and feeling. Premodern Japanese literature was composed with strong TOM expectations: readers were to make effort at understanding the deep feelings of the fictional characters they encounter. We will read primarily premodern Japanese prose works and plays whose characters are overtaken with “urami” (rancor, hatred) and related emotions—jealousy, envy, resentment and revenge. A portion of the content of these feelings can fairly be described as universal. However, there are culture-specific aspects to them in terms of thought content, the cause of the emotion, and what is considered a remedy. Trying to understand these specifics is key to accurate TOM construction. Our texts will be diverse—from folktales to aristocratic works that date from the 10th to 18th centuries. Some selections are famous, others are not, but they all have a fascinating relationship with these powerful emotions. No prerequisites or prior knowledge of Japan or its language is required or expected. Prerequisites: None.The course considers the different literary, social and ethical formations that arise or are destroyed in disaster. We will pay particular attention to a range of works that explicitly or obliquely reframe discursive and popular representations of disasters in cinema, literature and other media. Throughout the semester, we will examine how these works transpose historical trauma into the post-3/11 environment, what new vulnerabilities are made legible by these emergent representations and what becomes of communities and individuals in times of catastrophe. Prerequisites: None.The focus will be on Japanese writings on Buddhism from the Meiji period through early Showa periods, looking primarily at examples of how modernity affected Japanese Buddhist thought. Probable topics: defining the place of the Buddhist priest in modern society, government led attempts to fuse Buddhism and Shinto (daikyoin), consideration of non-monastics in defining sectarian traditions (shugaku), redefining the two-truth doctrine in political terms (shinzoku nitai), demythologization (hishinwaka), the impact of German philosophy and Christian theology on Zen and Pure Land thinkers (= Kyoto School), the issue of the Mahayana scriptures not being the word of the historical Buddha, and the appeal of the Tannisho as the most representative text of modern religious thinking. This class can be taken for either 2 or 4 credits. A research paper and presentation on one's research topic are required for 4 credits. Prerequisites: This class will be open to undergraduates who have either completed will be concurrently enrolled in J100B (advanced Japanese), and at least one semester of classical Japanese (Japan 120) is also required.The Tale of Genji is universally recognized as the greatest literary accomplishment of Japan's classical era and one of the enduring monuments of world civilization. This course is devoted to that work and to the literary milieu out of which it arose, including Man'yôshû and Kokinshû poetry, female poetic memoirs, earlier forays into prose fiction, and historiography. The goal is to acquire a synthetic appreciation of the classical literary world. Each unit will consist of readings in primary texts in Japanese together presentation and discussion of central studies in English. Though primarily intended for graduate students, advanced undergraduates are also encouraged to attend. The course may be taken for four units with a seminar paper, or for two units without. Prerequisites: graduate standing or advanced undergraduates; or consent of instructor.This course will have both pedagogical and practical goals.  Its chief purpose is to acquaint graduate students at every level and across various disciplines with the history and current state of the field of Japanese studies.   In addition to the faculty coordinator, three or four faculty members from different departments will make presentations on their respective fields, incorporating a selection of key works for joint reading along with discussion of their own research and related issues of methodology.  On the more practical side, in cooperation with the East Asian Library staff, proseminar presenters will introduce resources available on campus for graduate level research, and devote substantial attention to the “how-to” of making research contacts and navigating archives and other facilities in Japan.   In this way, the proseminar will leave graduate students with an enhanced understanding of the field they have chosen and prepare them for the challenges of fieldwork, which remains – digitalization notwithstanding – the core experience of our field. Prerequisites: graduate standing; or consent of instructor.The departure point of this seminar is a reworking of the notion of the literary archive as a tributary to the way it is perceived in different periods and in relation to different media (painting, photography and cinema). We will concentrate on the critical arts that oscillate between image and text, taking into account of the complex and intricate ways in which these cultural forms lend themselves to archival capture and release. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.These courses are designed for students who have little or no prior knowledge of the Korean language. With emphasis on speaking, listening, writing, and reading skills, the course will introduce the basic grammar of the Korean language. The courses are also intended to introduce certain cultural aspects through media sources and various activities.Please note: Korean 1B is not open to heritage students who have some background knowledge in Korean.These courses are designed for students who already have elementary comprehension and speaking skills in Korean and have minimum exposure to reading and/or writing in Korean.Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.This course explores various aspects of modern Korean literature and culture in the twentieth century. We will examine a range of literary works as well as art and film, in the contexts of colonialism and nationalism, the Korean War and national division, and the various issues that emerged in the process of modernization. No previous course work in Korean or Korean studies required. All readings are in English translation.Through critical analysis of the works of fiction, poetry, and visual media, we will consider the following set of matters: 1) how the issues of national identity, gender, and socio-economic class are articulated in a diverse array of texts; 2) the complex relations between colonialism and a rise of modernist thinking about the national culture, and between cultural production and formation of identity; 3) modern views on urban and rural space; and 4) how the major events in modern Korean history (colonial occupation, war, urban unrest, political violence, dislocation and relocation) have been represented and remembered in literary texts and in popular culture. Prerequisites: None.These are second-year courses in modern Korean with equal attention given to listening, speaking, reading, writing, and cultural aspects of the language.Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructorThese are second-year courses in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background.Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructorThese are third-year courses in modern Korean with emphasis on acquisition of advanced vocabulary and grammatical structure. Approximately 100 Sino-Korean characters will be introduced in each semester. Students will gain exposure and knowledge of advanced-level Korean by reading authentic texts and writing short compositions, summaries, essays, and critical reviews. Small group discussions will enhance speaking skills.Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructorThese are third-year courses in modern Korean for students whose Korean proficiency level is higher in speaking than in reading or writing due to Korean-heritage background.Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.These are fourth-year advanced courses in the reading and analysis of specialized texts in modern Korean drawn from literature, history, sociology, economics etc. Advanced conversation, writing skills, and practice in the use of standard reference tools will also be emphasized, with the goal of preparing students to do independent research in Korean.Prerequisites: Korean 100B; or consent of instructor.This course surveys modern Korean fiction in the second half of the twentieth century. Beginning with liberation from Japanese colonial rule in 1945, this period in Korea was characterized by a highly charged political atmosphere, due to events such as the US occupation, the Korean War, the division, and the military dictatorship. In response, diverse and intense forms of activism emerged. This course will examine how modern Korean literature has been engaged with shaping historical memories by producing counter-narratives of critical historical and political events. Readings include major works in the genres of the novel, short fiction, and literary criticism. Various visual materials, including Korean films produced since the 1990s, will constitute a significant component course materials. Prerequisites: none.This course will explore the moments in which interactions with foreign cultures came to the fore in Korean literature from the sixteenth through the nineteenth century. The reading list will cover a broad range of prose literature, including the narrative of a shipwrecked officer’s journey, travel accounts of Choson officials’ diplomatic visits to China, and fictional narratives produced during the times of war in East Asia in the seventeenth century. Questions to be addressed concern how experiences of the encounters with foreign cultures have been represented in Korean literature; what their domestic ramifications were, especially in terms of literary genres; and how the transformation of Korean national identity has been imagined and articulated in literary works. Students who have experience in Chinese and Japanese Studies are also welcome. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: none.A beginning Tibetan class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). Prerequisite: Tibetan 1A or equivalent; or consent of instructor.This course seeks to develop a critical understanding of contemporary Tibet, characterized as it is by modernity, invasion, Maoism, liberalization, exile, and diaspora. It explores the cultural dynamism of the Tibetans over the last 100 years as expressed in literature, film, music, modern art, and political protest. The core topics include intra-Tibetan arguments regarding the preservation and "modernization" of traditional cultural forms, the development of new aesthetic creations and values, the constraints and opportunities on cultural life under colonialism and in the diaspora, and the religious nationalism of the recent political protests. Prerequisites: None.This seminar will explore the origins and early development of Rdzogs chen (“the Great Perfection”) tradition of Tibetan Buddhism. The course will proceed chronologically, beginning with the tradition’s origins in the late eighth and early ninth centuries and ending with the codifying work of Klong chen rab ’byams pa in the fourteenth century. Texts considered may include a short manuscript from Dunhuang, the 9th-10th-century writings of Nupchen Sangye Yeshe, the early Snying thig tantras and their Vimalamitra-attributed commentaries, and the writings of Longchenpa. Readings will be analyzed with an eye for historical developments—philosophical, ritual, doxographical, etc.—that unfolded under the umbrella of Rdzogs chen. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.The course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course continues to focus on training students in the four language skills--speaking, listening, reading, and writing with a gradually increasing emphasis on basic cultural readings and developing intercultural competence. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The second of a two-semester sequence introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. The course will focus on the development of sound writing skills. Prerequisites: None.The course further develops students’ linguistic and cultural competence. In dealing with texts, students are guided to interpret, narrate, describe, and discuss topics ranging from real-life experience and personal memoire to historic events. Intercultural competence is promoted through linguistic and cultural awareness and language use in culturally appropriate contexts. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course continues to develop students’ literacy and communicative competence through vocabulary and structure expansion dealing with topics related to Chinese heritage students’ personal experiences. Students are guided to express themselves on complex issues and to connect their language knowledge with real world experiences. Prerequisites: Chinese 1X; or consent of instructor.The course helps students further develop their linguistic and cultural competence in Mandarin Chinese. It trains students to use Mandarin more appropriately and confidently in speaking, reading, and writing. With the expanded repertoire of Chinese language use and the increased awareness of the differences between cultures and subcultures, students are equipped to negotiate their way in an intercultural environment. Prerequisites: Chinese 1Y; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course continues the development of critical awareness by emphasizing the link between socio-cultural literacy and a higher level of language competence. While continuing to expand their critical literacy skills, students interpret texts related to Chinese popular culture, social change, cultural traditions, politics and history. Through linguistic and cultural comparisons, students understand more about people in the target society and themselves as well as about the power of language in language use to enhance their competence in operating between languages and associated cultures. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Please note: The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course continues to develop students’ critical literacy skills in interpreting texts and writing in different genres and styles. It engages students to use their linguistic knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in contemporary and historic economic, social, and political contexts. Students are guided to explore how language constructs subjective realities and contrast their own meanings in language production. The development of critical literacy and an understanding of the power of language in language use enables students to enhance their competence in operating between languages and associated cultures. Prerequisites: Chinese 100XA; or consent of instructor.The course is designed to assist students to reach the advanced-mid level on language skills and to enhance their intercultural competence. Students read the works of famous Chinese writers. Movie adaptations of these writings are also used. In addition to reading and seeking out information, students experience readings by interpreting and constructing meanings and evaluate the effect of the language form choice. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or Chinese 100XB; or consent of instructor.Built on the foundation of Chinese 110A, which has focused on grammar learning through brief excerpts from ancient works, this course introduces students to longer and more complex essays in Classical Chinese including philosophical treatises, biographies, and fictions from Ancient to Late Medieval China. Samples of regular verses will also be covered. Students will be trained to use dictionaries, categorized compilations (leishu), and annotated editions to facilitate reading comprehension. The goal is to equip students with independent abilities to explore advanced Classical Chinese texts. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This fast-paced course is designed to help the student reach an advanced-high competence level in all aspects of modern Chinese. It prepares students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Texts are selected according to the students’ interests. Under the instructor’s guidance, students conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. Research projects are presented both orally and in written form. Prerequisites: Chinese 101 and Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This course is an introduction to the history of Buddhism in China from its beginnings in the early centuries CE to the present day. Through engagement with historical scholarship, primary sources in translation, and Chinese Buddhist art, we will explore the intellectual history and cultural impact of Buddhism in China. Students will also be introduced to major issues in the institutional history of Buddhism, the interactions between Buddhism and indigenous Chinese religions, and the relationship between Buddhism and the state. Prerequisites: None. Previous study of Buddhism is helpful but not required.Daoism is China’s indigenous institutionalized religion. Founded in the second century of our era, Daoism remains today one of the major world religions, with practitioners and lay followers on every continent. In this course, we will trace the origins of Daoism in Warring States philosophical and technical literature, examine the millenarian church of the early medieval era, explore the fourth century scriptural revelations that brought Daoism to a wider audience of literati and the state, and observe the rise of monasticism and the personal cultivation of inner alchemy. The course will conclude with a detailed treatment of Daoism in modern Chinese religion, as revealed in recent fieldwork in China and Taiwan. A primary focus of the course will be an understanding of Daoism as a lived religion that responds to the needs and aspirations of a changing, dynamic Chinese populace. Prerequisites: None.This course aims to introduce vernacular Chinese literature from the late nineteenth century to contemporary period. Our engagement with vernacular Chinese literature will center around the following questions: What is vernacular Chinese literature and how do we define it in relation to modern Chinese literature? How did Chinese intellectuals in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries conceptualize, discuss, and produce vernacular literature for different purposes? In particular, how is the concept of the vernacular language (baihua) intersected with other social, political, and scientific discourses? We will read a variety of literary works and essays to explore the rise of vernacular Chinese literature as a renewed tradition. In addition to the literary tradition in China, we will also study how contemporary authors from Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Malaysia engage with vernacular literary production. While most readings are in English, we will also read a few works in Chinese. Students who are proficient in Chinese are encouraged to read all texts in the original language. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or Chinese 100XB (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This class introduces cinema from Taiwan through the lenses of its major film auteurs. We will focus on internationally celebrated auteurs of the New Taiwan Cinema—Hou Hsiao Hsien, Edward Yang, and Tsai Mingliang—by situating their works in Taiwan’s film history and their engagement with the global “new wave” cinema as well as Taiwan’s political and cultural history. The class will combine inquiries of film style with considerations of Taiwan’s colonial legacy, its pressing social and political concerns, and its geopolitical dynamic between other parts of the Greater China and the Chinese diasporiac communities around the globe. Introducing major scholarship on Taiwan cinema and sinophone studies, this class will equip students with film analysis skills, critical theory, and knowledge of Taiwan cinema. Prerequisites: None.This course centers around intensive reading and analysis of Cao Xueqin’s 18th-century masterpiece of Chinese fiction (also known as the Dream of the Red Chamber). Students will be introduced to the literary, cultural, philosophical, and material world from which this work emerged, as well as various approaches to the world within the text. Prerequisites: None.A study of the founding period of Daoism through primary documents. We will read a variety of texts from the Daoist canon that can be confidently dated to the second through fifth centuries of the movement, including scriptures,  ritual manuals, precept lists, demonological works, and hagiographies. These sources will document diverse aspects of the early church, but a special focus will be on ordination and church organization. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.This semester the seminar will focus on the writings of Heze Shenhui 荷澤神會 (684-758), the disciple and champion of the Sixth Patriarch Huineng 惠能 (638-713) and one of the architects of the "sudden school" of Chan. We will focus on the Dunhuang manuscripts associated with Shenhui, notably the Putidamo nanzong ding shifei lun 菩提達摩南宗定是非論 ("Treatise Establishing the Truth of the Southern Tradition of Bodhidharma") and the Nanyang heshang dunjiao jietuo chanmen zhi liaoxing tanyu 南陽和尚頓教解脫禪門直了性壇語 ("Platform Sermon by the Rev­erend of Nanyang on Directly Comprehending One's Nature according to the Chan Doctrine of Liberation through the Sudden Teaching"). In addition to the primary texts (we will use the edition by Hu Shih, Shenhui heshang yiji, 1970), we will be consulting the voluminous body of unpublished material left behind by the late John McRae. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.How do we evaluate the Wenxin diaolong and its place in the history of Chinese literature? Students in this seminar will be reading texts pertaining to premodern Chinese literary thought, with a focus on the Wenxin diaolong by Liu Xie.  As we work our way through each chapter, we will examine Liu’s formulation of the ethics and aesthetics of reading and writing in his own historical context, with attention to how the formal aspects of the work reflect its ideals.  Along the way, we will pause to examine key critical terms and ideas as they appear therein, and trace examples of their continued use in the tradition; and, through an examine of critical editions and citations, look at its reception and influence over time.  Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.The advent of Chinese literary modernity is often associated with the introduction of the modern vernacular language in the early twentieth century. This process, however, was preceded and augmented by a fundamental restructuring of prevailing genre hierarchies, as well as the gradual institutionalization of new systems for the categorization of cultural production. In this seminar, we will familiarize ourselves with various 'genres' of genre theory, while undertaking a concurrent exploration of how genre has worked to constitute new infrastructures for reading and writing in the early twentieth century. Topics will include late Qing print culture and its orthographic and paratextual innovations; the problem of the realist novel and the persistence of short forms such as xiaopinwen; and the power of designations such as "popular,"  "folk" and "mass" literature and culture. The course will culminate with a series of case studies of particular intermedial genres such as science fiction, wuxia, and melodrama/romance, understood as local and contingent inflections of transnationally circulating forms through which the experience of modernity has been mediated. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.This course will explore some of the most difficult bioethical issues confronting the world today from the perspective of traditional values embedded in the cultural history of India, China, and Japan as evidenced in their religions, legal codes, and political history. Possible topics include population control, abortion, sex-selection, euthanasia, suicide, genetic manipulation, brain-death, and organ transplants. Prerequisites: None.Rather than approaching Buddhism as a belief system, this course examines how Buddhism is practiced in select South and Southeast Asian societies. The first segment will be dedicated to the Theravada traditions of Sri Lanka, Thailand and Cambodia. The second (and longer) segment focuses on the tantric Mahayana tradition of the Kathmandu Valley of Nepal, the sole form of Buddhism surviving in mainland South Asia. Across these Buddhist traditions we will examine how Buddhism is woven into the fabric of society, and shapes and structures peoples' lives. For this we will examine particular themes such as the different models of monkhood and monasticism, the adaptation to the caste system, the practices and role of the laity, kingship, life-cycle and other rituals, tantric practices, etc. The course materials will be brought to life by the extensive presentation of visual materials including documentaries and rare video footage. While the prior study of an Asian religious tradition, ideally Buddhism or Hinduism, is recommended, this is not a prerequisite and the course is open to all interested students. Prerequisites: None.Description coming soon. Prerequisites: None.This course is a capstone experience that centers on the philosophies and religions of East Asia examined from multiple theoretical perspectives. It comprises several thematic units within which a short set of readings about theory are followed by chronologically arranged readings about East Asia. Themes will alternate from year to year but may include: ritual and performance studies; religion and evolution; definitions of religion and theories of its origins; and the role of sacrifice. Prerequisites: None. Preference will be given to majors, especially those with junior or senior standing.This course is taught in parallel with the EA LANG 191 capstone course on the philosophies and religions of East Asia examined from multiple theoretical perspectives. It comprises several thematic units within which a short set of readings about theory are followed by chronologically arranged readings about East Asia. Themes will alternate from year to year but may include: ritual and performance studies; religion and evolution; definitions of religion and theories of its origins; and the role of sacrifice. Graduate students will additionally attend five “teaching East Asia thought” lectures and also produce an original syllabus in a related area of their interest. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.Japanese 1B is designed to develop basic skills acquired in Japanese 1A further. Students will learn approximately 150 new kanji. At the end of the course students should be able to express regret, positive and negative requirements, chronological order of events, conditions, giving and receiving of objects and favors, and to ask and give advice. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisites: Japan 1A; or consent of instructor.This class explores major literary writers of modern Japan and introduces important cultural contexts from the Meiji Restoration (1868) into the 21st century. Topical focus is determined by the key directions of the authors, resulting in a wide conceptual range topics including problems with individualism, definitions of the beautiful, moral weakness / strength, conundrums in apprehending or narrative truth, revenge, and aimlessness. All readings are in English translation. Writing credible and interesting analytic essays is an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the more advanced language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; pop-culture, traditional arts, education, convenient stores, haiku, and history. Through the final project, students will learn how to introduce their own cultures and their influences. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary they acquired in the previous semesters, as well as study new linguistic expressions. An increasing amount of more advanced reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required. Prerequisites: Japan 10A; or consent of instructor.This course introduces students to debates on gender and sexuality from the vectors and flows of transnational queer cinema. We will explore how queer cinema, as an archive of local intimacies, opens up new critical possibilities for us to imagine alternative forms of belonging, embodiment and sexual freedom.This course aims to develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, essays, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japan 100A; or consent of instructor.Students will be trained to read, analyze, and translate modern Japanese scholarship on Chinese subjects. A major purpose of the course is to prepare students to take reading examinations in Japanese. The areas of scholarship to be covered are: politics, popular culture, religion, sociology and history as well as areas suggested by students who are actively engaged in research projects. Two readings in selected areas will be assigned, one by the instructor and the second by a student participant. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing; Japan 10B and Chinese 100B or equivalents.This course helps heritage learners of Japanese who have completed 10X to develop further their linguistic and cultural competencies. More sophisticated linguistic forms are introduced and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, and different genres of Japanese reading and writing are practiced. The materials covered are equivalent to those of 100A-100B. Prerequisites: Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.This course provides students an opportunity to develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills in order to express their opinions in argumentative discourse. Students read and discuss a variety of Japanese texts to deepen their understanding of Japanese society and people and to improve their intercultural communicative competence. Prerequisites: Japan 100, Japan 100B, or Japan 100X; or consent of instructor.Students develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills further while examining Japanese historical figures, events, background, stories, etc. Students read a variety of texts and watch videos related to Japanese history as sources for discussions to deepen their understanding of Japanese society, culture, and people from historical perspectives. Students conduct individual research on a topic in Japanese history, and write a short research paper. Prerequisites: Japanese 100, Japanese 100B, or Japanese 100X; or consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who have studied Japanese for at least four years (540 hours). It aims to develop further their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills with special emphasis on essay and research paper writing on topics relevant not only to the student’s interest but also to the student's major or intended career. Part of this written work will become the material on which the student will give an end-of-the-term oral presentation. Students are expected to fully prepare for and dynamically participate in the discussions and debates that occur in class. Prerequisities: Two courses chosen from Japanese 101, Japanese 102, Japanese 103, or Japanese 104Description coming soon. Prerequisities: Japan 120; or consent of instructor.This course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Japanese in its wabun (aka bungo) and kanbun forms (including kakikudashi). The class will read samples from a variety of genres, including material written in China that are read in an idiosyncratic way in Japan. Reading materials will include Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, scriptural commentaries written in China and Korea, Japanese subcommentaries on influential Chinese and Korean commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiography, apologetics, histories, doctrinal letters, preaching texts, and setsuwa literature. This course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Japanese. Prerequisites: Japan 120; or consent of instrcutor. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful, but not required.This course places in dialogue concepts of "strength" and "dependency" (amae), as explored in a variety of literary works written from Meiji times until the present. To ask "What is strength?" raises considerations of gender-specific norms and aspirations. To take seriously the widely encountered high valuation of "dependency" (amae) in modern Japanese narratives engages a way of thinking/feeling that is important for understanding them. However, both "strength" and "dependency" are better understood when considered together and the dialogue between these is an entry into questions such as "true love" or a sincere and "true life" is—questions that have been asked by fictional characters, narrators, and their authors in many different ways, from the early Shirakaba Group to the post-war Burai Group to the most contemporary of authors. We pursue some of the most interesting formulations of these questions as well as how tensions between strength and dependency give shape to fictional characters or drive narratives. Approximately 6-8 authors will be read.  While larger works are read in English, all essential passages are read in Japanese. Prerequisites: J100B (may be taken concurrently); or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, modality/evidentiality, deixis, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), conversation management, and rhetorical structure. Students are required to have intermediate knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: Japan 10, Japan 10B, or Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.In this course, we will address a range of prose narrative and visual works organized around the subject of “postwar.”  We will explore how writers and artists represented the postwar in its varied forms. Some attempted to capture the experience of fighting and surviving the war.  Others focused on the social dislocations they felt were occasioned by the occupation and defeat.  Still others used the aftermath of war as a particular setting to explore the rapidly evolving gender roles and changing sexual mores. In examining postwar Japanese culture from roughly 1946 to 1960, the course seeks to show the interconnectedness of aesthetics and politics and to locate the multidirectional memories of the postwar that persist in our own time. Prerequisites: None.Urami (rancor, resentment) has an enduring presence in Japanese literature. Figures overburdened with urami become demons, vengeful ghosts or other transformed, dangerous, scheming characters. They appear in many different genre and eras. The course's topic enables discussion on concepts important for understanding Japanese literary works such as hyper-attentiveness to shifting social status, the role of groupness in targeting victims, the imperatives of shame, secrets, the circumscribed agency of women, and the reach of Buddhist teachings into behavioral norms. For those interested in comparative literature, the course offers an opportunity to take a measure of what Japanese narratives offer as legitimate causes of rancor and revenge. Prerequisites: None.Description coming soon. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.In the seminar, we will examine the concept of precarity and its effects on the study of Japan across various disciplines. We will reflect historically and theoretically on the ways in which the concept has been mobilized to describe an experience of human life as tenuous and unpredictable. We will then explore how the immaterial, affective, and cognitive demands of social life may compel a reconfiguration of Japan as an object of study and invite a realignment of disciplinary knowledge and practice. Readings for most weeks include one primary text supplemented by secondary sources. We will consider various figurations of precarity in fiction, ethnography and film; the ethics of vulnerability and the politics of care; catastrophes and the problem of scale, poverty and representation. This course is open to all graduate students. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.Close readings of Japanese literature (in the original language) in a variety of genres, from the 1940s to the present. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.With an emphasis on speaking, listening, reading and writing, students will learn daily life expressions, common colloquialisms, and speech acts. The course is also intended to introduce certain cultural aspects through media sources and various activities. Prerequisities: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.With an emphasis on speaking, listening, reading and writing, students will learn daily life expressions, common colloquialisms, and speech acts. The course is also intended to introduce certain cultural aspects through media sources and various activities. Prerequisities: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.With special emphasis on reading and writing, students will expand common colloquialisms and appropriate speech acts. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A survey of modern Korean literature and culture in the 20th century, focusing on the development of nationalist aesthetics in both North and South Korea. Topics include "new woman" narratives, urban culture, colonial modernity, war and trauma, and diaspora. Texts to be examined include works of fiction, poetry, art, and film. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.This intermediate course will emphasize reading and writing so that students can reach a comparable proficiency with their already high speaking and listening skills. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Students will learn more advanced expressions and use them in reading and writing. Small group discussions will enhance speaking and listening skills. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.Students will be introduced to advanced-level Korean by reading authentic texts and writing short compositions, summaries, essays, and critical reviews. Students will be encouraged to speak using advanced vocabulary and expressions. Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.This is an advanced course of reading and textual analysis in various areas including politics, economics, society, and history. Both fluency and accuracy will also be emphasized in speaking and writing with the goal of preparing students to conduct independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or Korean 100BX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to prepare students for research or employment in a Korea-related field. Authentic materials will be used to discuss various issues in Korea and some may be selected by students to explore their specific interests/needs. Students will conduct research projects in their own fields of study. Prerequisites: Korean 101 and Korean 102; or consent of instructor.This course will examine the works of major poets in the first half of the 20th century and will consider the formation of modern Korean poetry. Particular attention will be given to the ideas of lyricism, modernism, and the identity of a poet in the context of the colonial occupation of Korea. Prerequisite: Korean 100A or Korean 100AX.This course aims to facilitate critical understanding of persistent themes and diverse styles of modern Korean literature through close readings of canonical works from the colonial period (1910-1945). It encourages students to develop broad comprehension of “post-colonial” characteristics of Korean literature. Concurrently, it explores how Korean literature aspired to the expression of the universal aesthetic values and judgment against the particularistic historical condition of colonialism. Prerequisite: Korean 100A or Korean 100AX.This course examines Korean literature from the fifteenth through the nineteenth centuries through the perspectives of gender. Although the modern discourse of enlightenment in Korea, beginning in the early twentieth century, has been sharply critical of gender inequality in premodern Korea, the gender relations represented in premodern Korean literature are much more complex and dynamic than we might expect. To revise our understanding of gender in premodern Korea, this course seeks to examine how gender is imagined particularly in terms of the body, bodily practice, and theatrical performance. Prerequisites: None.This course surveys modern Korean fiction in the second half of the twentieth century. Beginning with liberation from Japanese colonial rule in 1945, this period in Korea was characterized by a highly charged political atmosphere, due to events such as the US occupation, the Korean War, the division, and the military dictatorship. In response, diverse and intense forms of activism emerged. This course will examine how modern Korean literature has been engaged with shaping historical memories by producing counter-narratives of critical historical and political events. Readings include major works in the genres of the novel, short fiction, and literary criticism. Various visual materials, including Korean films produced since the 1990s, will constitute significant component of course materials. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.A continuation of Tibetan 1A, Tibetan 1B develops further listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect), with a gradually increasing emphasis on basic cultural readings and developing intercultural competence. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1B; or consent of instructor.This course seeks to develop a critical understanding of contemporary Tibet, characterized as it is by modernity, invasion, Maoism, liberalization, exile, and diaspora. It explores the cultural dynamism of the Tibetans over the last 100 years as expressed in literature, film, music, modern art, and political protest. The core topics include intra-Tibetan arguments regarding the preservation and "modernization" of traditional cultural forms, the development of new aesthetic creations and values, the constraints and opportunities on cultural life under colonialism and in the diaspora, and the religious nationalism of the recent political protests. Prerequisites: None.This seminar is devoted to an exploration of the canon of Nyingma liturgies and commentaries known as the Kama (bka' ma), both "the very idea of" the collection itself and it's recessional history. The core texts for this seminar are a number of catalogs (dkar chag) of the Kama dating from the early 18th to the early 21st centuries. These catalogs were venues for the ongoing reflection regarding the identity and nature of the texts that belong within the canon and the place of the Kama within the Nyingma tradition more broadly. In addition to being an excellent opportunity for a study of late premodern and contemporary Nyingma history, the readings for this course also provide for a detailed study of Tibetan philological and editorial practices, and the social history of book production. Advanced-intermediate Tibetan is a prerequisite of the seminar; texts will be distributed in class. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing.The course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course continues to focus on training students in the four language skills--speaking, listening, reading, and writing with a gradually increasing emphasis on  developing intercultural and symbolic competence. Prerequisites: Chinese 1A; or consent of instructor.The second of a two-semester sequence introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. The course will focus on the development of sound writing skills. Prerequisites: None.The course further develops students’ linguistic and cultural competence. In dealing with texts, students are guided to interpret, narrate, describe, and discuss topics ranging from real-life experience and personal memoire to historic events. Intercultural competence is promoted through linguistic and cultural awareness and language use in culturally appropriate contexts. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.The course continues to develop students’ literacy and communicative competence through vocabulary and structure expansion dealing with topics related to Chinese heritage students’ personal experiences. Students are guided to express themselves on complex issues and to connect their language knowledge with real world experiences. Prerequisites: Chinese 1X; or consent of instructor.The course helps students further develop their linguistic and cultural competence in Mandarin Chinese. It trains students to use Mandarin more appropriately and confidently in speaking, reading, and writing. With the expanded repertoire of Chinese language use and the increased awareness of the differences between cultures and subcultures, students are equipped to negotiate their way in an intercultural environment. Prerequisites: Chinese 1Y; or consent of instructor.The course continues the development of critical awareness by emphasizing the link between socio-cultural literacy and a higher level of language competence. While continuing to expand their critical literacy skills, students interpret texts related to Chinese popular culture, social change, cultural traditions, politics and history. Through linguistic and cultural comparisons, students understand more about people in the target society and themselves as well as about the power of language in language use to enhance their competence in operating between languages and associated cultures. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Advanced Chinese 100XB is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100XA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language. Prerequisites: Chinese 100XA; or consent of instructor.Advanced Chinese 100YB is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100YA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language. Prerequisites: Chinese 100YA; or consent of instructor.The course is designed to assist students to reach the advanced-mid level on language skills and to enhance their intercultural competence. Students read the works of famous Chinese writers. Movie adaptations of these writings are also used. In addition to reading and seeking out information, students experience readings by interpreting and constructing meanings and evaluate the effect of the language form choice. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or Chinese 100XB; or consent of instructor.A continuation of Chinese 110A, this course further hones students' grasp of essential sentence patterns, grammar points, and vocabulary through the careful reading and translation of a wide range of genres.These include excerpts from philosophical treatises, historical anecdotes, fictional tales and poetry, covering the period from the Warring States Period through the Tang Dynasty. The use of classical dictionaries will be introduced. By the end of the course, students will have acquired a solid foundation for the further exploration of writings from the premodern period in many of the upper division courses offered in EALC and History. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This fast-paced course is designed to help the student reach an advanced-high competence level in all aspects of modern Chinese. It prepares students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern living philosophies, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Texts are selected according to the students’ interests. Under the instructor’s guidance, students conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. Research projects are presented both orally and in written form. Prerequisites: Chinese 101 and Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.One way of tracing the history of a poetic tradition would be by simply looking for early examples of the sorts of texts we now call “poems.” We might look, for example, for formal features like regular meters or stanza forms, line breaks, and/or rhyme, or we might look for particular sorts of linguistic and expressive features like figurative language, or certain heightened or aestheticized expressive qualities that we think of as characteristically “poetic.” In this class, however, we will take a quite different approach to our readings in early Chinese poetic traditions: rather than use our modern notion of what a poem is as our point of departure, we will instead focus on some of the very specific (and in many cases unexpected or even alien) functions that were carried out by ancient communities through song, hymn, incantation, oracle, revelation—to name just a few of the types of early Chinese verbal compositions that might look to us like “poems” of some kind. The focus on the “religious imagination” in this course is intended to direct our attention in a general way to some basic starting questions regarding the way these texts mediate between living communities of human beings and various types of unseen powers or authorities—which might include ancestors, powers of nature, gods and goddesses of various types, or ancient human beings who have been made into cult heroes after their deaths, or alternatively who have succeeded as living humans in becoming “transcendent,” immortal, or enlightened. Finally as the most abstract and general form of unseen power, we might consider poems that allow communication with or from the generative power of the cosmos as a whole as designated by traditional terms like dao 道. Prerequisites: Chinese 110B; or consent of instructor.This course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Chinese. We will read samples from a variety of genres, including early Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, indigenous Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, and sectarian works, including Chan gongan (Zen koans). The course will also serve as an introduction to resource materials used in the study of Chinese Buddhist texts, and students will be expected to make use of a variety of reference tools in preparation for class. Readings in Chinese will be supplemented by a range of secondary readings in English on Mahayana doctrine and Chinese Buddhist history. Prerequisites: This course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Chinese, and at least one semester of Classical Chinese is prerequisite for enrollment. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful but not required.Many late-Ming and Qing fictional texts that were once thought had been penned by a single author from start to finish are now being shown to have drawn from many sources, creating a tremendous shift in our thinking about how to interpret them. This spring we will focus on the novel Jin Ping Mei (Plum in the Golden Vase), one of the Four Masterworks of the Ming novel, as a case in point.  We will engage in a semester-long reading of the novel, with particular attention paid to conceptions of literary character and the depiction of late Ming material culture.  Most importantly, we will be looking at the novel's masterful suturing of popular songs, plays, and material from encyclopediae of daily life, and asking what it means to interpret the novel as a whole given its heterogeneity. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B, 100XB, or 100XY (may be taken concurrently); or permission of instructor.Vernacular fiction in late imperial China emerged at the margins of official historiography, traveled through oral storytelling, and reached sophistication in the hands of literati. Covering the major genres and masterpieces of traditional Chinese novels including military, martial arts, libertine, and romantic stories, this course investigates how shifting boundaries brought about significant transformations of Chinese narrative at the levels of both form and content.Prerequisites: None.Li Shangyin 李商隱 (~813–858) is best known as perhaps the most important writer of classical poetry (shi 詩) of the ninth century. His work in this form (or constellation of forms) covers a wide range of stylistic types, and is embedded in a rich and fascinating web of interrelations, both in terms of how he made use of his favored poetic predecessors and contemporaries, and in terms of his lasting impact on work in shi (and ci詞) forms throughout later tradition. In this seminar, however, we will attempt to decenter the shi as the predominant frame for our understanding of Li Shangyin and his work, in the interest of pursuing questions about the function and nature of literary writing and literary value during the late medieval period. To do this means also to place literary writing into context among various sorts of communication spaces, networks, and media that would have shaped the lived world as well as the literary practice of a writer like Li Shangyin. To attempt this is not merely a perverse whim—documentary and bibliographical evidence tells us, for example, that both for Li Shangyin and for his contemporaries and early imitators, the core of his literary legacy lay not in his classical poetry, but rather in his two very popular anthologies of “parallel prose”—a genre of formal administrative writing that hardly seems “literary” at all by modern sensibilities. Our procedure in this seminar will be to treat such seemingly discordant features of the documentary evidence for this writer and his period not as extraneous oddities, but rather as clues toward an enriched and more deeply historicist picture of Li Shangyin’s literary practice, and of the early reception of his work up to the turn of the eleventh century, as part of a distinctively late medieval “media landscape.” Prerequisites: Primarily for graduate students. Good reading command of literary Chinese as well as advanced skills in writing and research will be essential.Recent comparative studies highlight how “precocious” Chinese aesthetic criticism of novels was compared to the Western counterpart. It has also been pointed out that the intense attention this kind of criticism pays to the textual “patterning” in novels implies a different cultural understanding of what counts as “action” or “event” than what is found in Western narratology. But it is seldom asked: what counts as “pattern”? How does a critic discover “pattern” in a story and a piece of writing? What does this tell us about the formation of resemblance in a certain culture? How does this rhythmic echoing of resemblance—that is, repetition—cast a light on the issue of temporality, which has been found at the core of narrative? And yet as a particular kind of medium, how do novels in print differ from other verbal or visual narrative arts concerning the form of repetition? And what kind of literary and cultural history could we write by following through a genealogy of repetition in Chinese novels from the late fifteenth to eighteenth centuries? These are the questions to be explored in this seminar by putting together masterpieces of Chinese novels, traditional fiction criticism, contemporary theories, and comparative perspectives. Prerequisites: graduate standing.Through the analysis of the "love"-related aspects of specific East Asian narratives (premodern literary texts and modern cinema), students sharpen their understanding of traditional East Asian values and, in the process, consider the status of such values in contemporary East Asia. Students develop interpretive skills while exploring the traditional role of Confucianism, Buddhism and Daoism in "love" narratives, on the one hand, and sharing diverse opinions on definitions of love in contemporary China, Korea and Japan on the other. No prerequisites. Open to all.This class examines the global dynamics and local distinction of literary writings from contemporary East Asia. Beginning with the colonial connections among Tokyo, Shanghai and Seoul during the 1920s-1940s, and moving on to texts composed since 2000 in Manila, Hong Kong, India and elsewhere, the course considers how literary writers have grappled with an increasingly integrated global marketplace in which culture, ideas and people circulate alongside (and as) capital.  Discussions will reflect on the confluence of culture and politics in literary writings that treat race tension, ecological crisis, capitalist catastrophe and other themes. Over the course of the semester, we will examine writings by Yokomitsu Riichi, Mu Shiying, Eileen Chang, Amitav Ghosh, V.S. Naipaul, and others. Primary readings will be supplemented by iconic works of cultural criticism, cinema and music. Prerequisites: None.This semester the course will focus on the impact of modernity on Buddhist Asia, beginning in the late 19th century, with a special focus on Japan where the impact of Western culture was transformative far more quickly than elsewhere in the traditional Buddhist world. We will look at the effect of Japan sending scholars to Europe to study the new field of “Buddhist Studies” as early as the 1870s, and the subsequent effect of academic programs in universities upon the Buddhist religious community in the form of fundamental changes in how Buddhism in Japan redefined itself in response to new historical knowledge, science, and political pressure from the government. The first half of the course will look at the critical and often disruptive discourse within the Buddhist community between 1870 and 1930 and the changes it brought about, such as clerical marriage, the creation of semi-secular Buddhist universities, attempts to fuse Buddhism and nationalism, and the invention of “Buddhist Philosophy”. The second half of the course will examine new Buddhist groups in the modern period and new forms of Buddhist activism in Japan today, such as Buddhist-inspired ecological activities, hospice care, political parties, psychological counseling, etc. Prerequisites: None.Almost by definition, the imaginary is unreal. The realm of children, dreamers, poets, artists, religious visionaries, the superstitious, and lunatics, it is often discussed as an epiphenomenal curiosity—a creative byproduct of the mind, but a misleading one. In this seminar, we will take imagination more seriously. Through a series of readings, in combination with several invited guests and lectures, we propose to explore how imagination is in fact fundamental to a wide range of academic disciplines, and even to human existence itself.  Readings will therefore be drawn from a broad range of communities, from Indian and Chinese literature to Jewish mysticism and Psychoanalytic theory.  In February, the course will join with a stand-alone four-week seminar on “Models of the Mind” being taught by David Shulman of Jerusalem University, Spring 2016 Avenali Chair at the Townsend Center for the Humanities.  These weeks will culminate in a series of Townsend Center events on dreaming and the imagination that students will be expected to attend.  Note that students may enroll in Shulman’s four-week seminar separately through the Townsend Center. Prerequsites: None.This seminar brings together faculty and students from the humanities and environmental sciences to develop a theoretical framework for the environmental humanities. It explores the complex meanings of the Anthropocene—the era in which human activities have had a significant impact on the earth’s ecosystems—and investigates how new theories of ethics and justice can be made applicable to resolving large-scale, complex environmental problems. http://townsendcenter.berkeley.edu/programs/fate-nature-anthropoceneJapanese 1B is designed to develop basic skills acquired in Japanese 1A further. Students will learn approximately 150 new kanji. At the end of the course students should be able to express regret, positive and negative requirements, chronological order of events, conditions, giving and receiving of objects and favors, and to ask and give advice. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisites: Japan 1A; or consent of instructor.This class examines modern Japanese culture through the lens of literature and film.  Our analyses of texts and images from roughly the last century will bring us into contact with the political tensions and cultural connections that have linked the literary and cinematic imaginations of modern Japan to the broader dynamics of a global modernity.  Among other things, the course will examine literature of the Japanese diaspora, avant-garde modernism, visual culture, atomic bomb literature, and the continuing disasters of Fukushima. Prerequisites: None.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the more advanced language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; pop-culture, traditional arts, education, convenient stores, haiku, and history. Through the final project, students will learn how to introduce their own cultures and their influences. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary they acquired in the previous semesters, as well as study new linguistic expressions. An increasing amount of more advanced reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required. Prerequisites: Japan 10A; or consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, essays, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japan 100A; or consent of instructor.This course helps heritage learners of Japanese who have completed 10X to develop further their linguistic and cultural competencies. More sophisticated linguistic forms are introduced and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, and different genres of Japanese reading and writing are practiced. The materials covered are equivalent to those of 100A-100B. Prerequisites: Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.This course provides students an opportunity to develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills in order to express their opinions in argumentative discourse. Students read and discuss a variety of Japanese texts to deepen their understanding of Japanese society and people and to improve their intercultural communicative competence. Prerequisites: Japan 100, Japan 100B, or Japan 100X; or consent of instructor.We read in the original Japanese Edo period hokku (haiku) by Matsuo Bashō, Yosa Buson and Kobayashi Issa (17th c. – 19th c). We consider some of their works in the context of haiga (paintings with hokku written on them). The course approach is to enhance a literary appreciation of premodern hokku through considering the authors and their specific ways of working with the special demands of the hokku/haiku form. By the end of the course the student will be much more comfortable with reading and appreciating premodern hokku and be knowledgeable about three excellent haiku and some of the best of their poems. Prerequisite: J120; or permission of instructor.This course examines how the Japanese language has been used as a medium for making modern art by reading three writers under the rubric of literary modernism.  We will begin with excerpts from Kawabata Yasunari’s novel Yukiguni (Snow Country, 1935-1948) that refract the appeals of classical aesthetics, avant-garde ambitions, and cinematic vision.  We will then move on to short stories by Murakami Haruki from the early 1980s, and analyze their Anglicized style and relationships to jazz.   We will conclude by reading the Twitter poetry of Wagō Ryōichi, which appeared in the wake of the 2011 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster in Tōhoku, and articulated some of the literary possibilities that are afforded by the serial forms of social media today.  Over the course of the semester, these writers will guide our reflections on how the feelings of liberation and disinheritance have animated the aesthetics of literary modernism in Japan. All readings will be done in Japanese. Prerequisites: Japanese 100B (on concurrent enrollment).This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, modality/evidentiality, deixis, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), conversation management, and rhetorical structure. Students are required to have intermediate knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: Japan 10, Japan 10B, or Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.Urami (rancor, resentment) has an enduring presence in Japanese literature. Figures overburdened with urami become demons, vengeful ghosts or other transformed, dangerous, scheming characters. They appear in many different genre and eras. The course's topic enables discussion on concepts important for understanding Japanese literary works such as hyper-attentiveness to shifting social status, the role of groupness in targeting victims, the imperatives of shame, secrets, the circumscribed agency of women, and the reach of Buddhist teachings into behavioral norms. For those interested in comparative literature, the course offers an opportunity to take a measure of what Japanese narratives offer as legitimate causes of rancor and revenge. Prerequisites: None.This is an introduction to research tools for the study of Japanese humanities.  The course gives primary consideration to literary sources, but it also presents an overview of basic texts dealing with history, biography, geography, lexicography, and religion.  We are in a watershed era in bibliography in which older, book-related resources are giving way to web-based ones; our purpose in part will be to determine the extent to which the older resources have been supplanted.  For the second half of the course, we will be joined by Prof. Okuda Isao, who will introduce hentaigana, cursive characters, and other paleograpwwwhic and bibliographic methodologies. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; or consent of instructor.This course will look at the influence of place, especially sacred space, in modern Japanese fiction.  We will read and discuss both modern and some premodern Japanese texts in which place figures prominently, and also discuss scholarship about sacred space in Japan. We will explore how these works describe and confront these spaces to suggest diverse ways of thinking about the sacred and its relation to the social. The overall question is why certain places have such strong spiritual impact in Japanese culture and how and why they continue to do so today. With an emphasis on speaking, listening, reading and writing, students will learn daily life expressions, common colloquialisms, and speech acts. The course is also intended to introduce certain cultural aspects through media sources and various activities. Prerequisities: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.With special emphasis on reading and writing, students will expand common colloquialisms and appropriate speech acts. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A survey of modern Korean literature and culture in the 20th century, focusing on the development of nationalist aesthetics in both North and South Korea. Topics include "new woman" narratives, urban culture, colonial modernity, war and trauma, and diaspora. Texts to be examined include works of fiction, poetry, art, and film. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.With equal attention given to speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural aspects of the language, students will learn vocabulary, expressions, and varieties of speech styles beyond the basic level. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.This intermediate course will emphasize reading and writing so that students can reach a comparable proficiency with their already high speaking and listening skills. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Students will learn more advanced expressions and use them in reading and writing. Small group discussions will enhance speaking and listening skills. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.Students will be introduced to advanced-level Korean by reading authentic texts and writing short compositions, summaries, essays, and critical reviews. Students will be encouraged to speak using advanced vocabulary and expressions. Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.This is an advanced course of reading and textual analysis in various areas including politics, economics, society, and history. Both fluency and accuracy will also be emphasized in speaking and writing with the goal of preparing students to conduct independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or Korean 100BX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to prepare students for research or employment in a Korea-related field. Authentic materials will be used to discuss various issues in Korea. Students will write a research paper on the topic of their interests. Prerequisites: Korean 101 and Korean 102; or consent of instructor.This course will examine the works of major poets in the first half of the 20th century and will consider the formation of modern Korean poetry. Particular attention will be given to the ideas of lyricism, modernism, and the identity of a poet in the context of the colonial occupation of Korea. Prerequisite: Korean 100A or Korean 100AX.This course aims to facilitate critical understanding of persistent themes and diverse styles of modern Korean literature through close readings of canonical works from the colonial period (1910-1945). It encourages students to develop broad comprehension of “post-colonial” characteristics of Korean literature. Concurrently, it explores how Korean literature aspired to the expression of the universal aesthetic values and judgment against the particularistic historical condition of colonialism. Prerequisite: Korean 100A or Korean 100AX.This course surveys modern Korean fiction in the second half of the twentieth century. Beginning with liberation from Japanese colonial rule in 1945, this period in Korea was characterized by a highly charged political atmosphere, due to events such as the US occupation, the Korean War, the division, and the military dictatorship. In response, diverse and intense forms of activism emerged. This course will examine how modern Korean literature has been engaged with shaping historical memories by producing counter-narratives of critical historical and political events. Readings include major works in the genres of the novel, short fiction, and literary criticism. Various visual materials, including Korean films produced since the 1990s, will constitute significant component of course materials. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.This course offers a historical overview of Korean cinema from its colonial development to its present renaissance. It covers Korean film aesthetics, major directors, film movements, genre, censorship issues, and industrial transformation as well as global circulation and transnational reception. In an effort to read film as sociocultural texts, various topics will be discussed. All readings are in English.This undergraduate course examines aesthetic features and thematic preoccupation of major Korean film authors. It begins with a brief survey of historical development and theoretical underpinnings of concept of “auteur” and advances an inquiry into the application of such theoretical tool in area of film criticism and culture in Korea. In addition to analyzing filmmaker's distinct style and thematic consistency, the course also situates and explores film authorship in relation to larger contexts and dynamics of Korean cinema: industrial structure, government censorship, social changes and cultural phenomena, intellectual development, technological shifts, and discourse of national cinema. Prerequisites: None.A continuation of Mongolian 1A, This course furthers students' study in listening, speaking, reading and writing Khalkha Mongolian. Prerequisites: Mongoln 1A; or consent of instructor.This is a beginning course in colloquial Tibetan. Students will develop basic listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in standard Tibetan (Lhasa dialect). Cultural competency is also stressed in this class. Prerequisites: Tibetan 1A; or consent of instructor.This course is designed to further develop the student's skills in modern standard Tibetan. The emphasis is on communication skills in vernacular Tibetan, as well as grammar, reading, and writing. Cultural competency is also stressed in this class. Prerequisites: Tibetan 10A; or consent of instructor.This course seeks to develop a critical understanding of contemporary Tibet, characterized as it is by modernity, invasion, Maoism, liberalization, exile, and diaspora. It explores the cultural dynamism of the Tibetans over the last 100 years as expressed in literature, film, music, modern art, and political protest. The core topics include intra-Tibetan arguments regarding the preservation and "modernization" of traditional cultural forms, the development of new aesthetic creations and values, the constraints and opportunities on cultural life under colonialism and in the diaspora, and the religious nationalism of the recent political protests. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course develops beginning learners’ functional language ability—the ability to use Mandarin Chinese in linguistically and culturally appropriate ways at the beginning level. It helps students acquire communicative competence in Chinese while sensitizing them to the links between language and culture. Prerequisites: None.Chinese 7B is the second semester in a year long sequence introducing students to the literatures and cultures of China. We will read many of the major authors, works, and literary genres from the Yuan Dynasty to modern times, and place these writings in their historical, cultural, and material contexts.  This course does not assume or require any previous exposure to or coursework in Chinese literature, history, or language. This semester we will pay particular attention to the emergence of vibrant new urban and vernacular cultures in the late imperial period and their relation with classical traditions and literati culture, as well the revolutionary cultural transformations of the late 19th and 20th centuries. The course will both survey the literary and cultural topography that every serious student of China ought to know, while at the same time developing the critical reading and writing skills necessary to traverse and imaginatively engage with that historical terrain. Prerequisites:  The Chinese 7AB series is required of all Chinese majors. Chinese 7A is recommended, but not required, as a prerequisite for Chinese 7B. All readings are in English translation.  Students who are conversant in Chinese are encouraged to read original texts whenever possible. The course further develops students’ linguistic and cultural competence. In dealing with texts, students are guided to interpret, narrate, describe, and discuss topics ranging from real-life experience and personal memoire to historic events. Intercultural competence is promoted through linguistic and cultural awareness and language use in culturally appropriate contexts. Prerequisites: Chinese 10A; or consent of instructor.The course continues to develop students’ literacy and communicative competence through vocabulary and structure expansion dealing with topics related to Chinese heritage students’ personal experiences. Students are guided to express themselves on complex issues and to connect their language knowledge with real world experiences. Prerequisites: Chinese 1X; or consent of instructor.The course helps students further develop their linguistic and cultural competence in Mandarin Chinese. It trains students to use Mandarin more appropriately and confidently in speaking, reading, and writing. With the expanded repertoire of Chinese language use and the increased awareness of the differences between cultures and subcultures, students are equipped to negotiate their way in an intercultural environment. Prerequisites: Chinese 1Y; or consent of instructor.The course continues the development of critical awareness by emphasizing the link between socio-cultural literacy and a higher level of language competence. While continuing to expand their critical literacy skills, students interpret texts related to Chinese popular culture, social change, cultural traditions, politics and history. Through linguistic and cultural comparisons, students understand more about people in the target society and themselves as well as about the power of language in language use to enhance their competence in operating between languages and associated cultures. Prerequisites: Chinese 100A; or consent of instructor.Advanced Chinese 100XB is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100XA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language. Prerequisites: Chinese 100XA; or consent of instructor.Advanced Chinese 100YB is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100YA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language. Prerequisites: Chinese 100YA; or consent of instructor.The course is designed to assist students to reach the advanced-mid level on language skills and to enhance their intercultural competence. Students read the works of famous Chinese writers. Movie adaptations of these writings are also used. In addition to reading and seeking out information, students experience readings by interpreting and constructing meanings and evaluate the effect of the language form choice. Prerequisites: Chinese 100B or Chinese 100XB; or consent of instructor.Continuation of Chinese 110A. Reading and analysis of a variety of classical Chinese prose texts (focusing this semester on early historical writing), highlighting basic grammatical and rhetorical features of the language. On completing this course, students should have mastered all essential grammatical and syntactic features of the classical language, core vocabulary, as well as basic skills in the use of the relevant reference tools, and be fully prepared for upper-division classical literature courses as well as broader reading in a variety of literary Chinese genres. Prerequisites: Chinese 110A; or consent of instructor.This fast-paced course is designed to help the student reach an advanced-high competence level in all aspects of modern Chinese. It prepares students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern living philosophies, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Texts are selected according to the students’ interests. Under the instructor’s guidance, students conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. Research projects are presented both orally and in written form. Prerequisites: Chinese 101 and Chinese 102; or consent of instructor.This course, structured around a reading of the Journey to the West, will also examine texts and other types of sources relating both to the novel’s early antecedents and to its various successor works. We will introduce and discuss early texts on spirit journeys, cosmography, demonography, sources relating to the adaptation and assimilation of Buddhism—an initially quite alien and exotic cultural tradition and belief system—as well as late imperial to modern commentaries, metafictional works, and film relating to the Journey to the West in particular and the tradition of exotic journey in general. Prerequisite: Chinese 100A or equivalent; or consent of instructor.An intensive introduction to research in the field of Chinese Buddhism. Topics will include: (1) the early Chinese assimilation of Buddhism; (2) the emergence of medieval Chinese Buddhist "schools" such as Chan, Tiantai, Pure Land, and the Esoteric tradition; (3) Buddhist art, archaeology, and material culture; (4) Song Buddhism; (5) later Chinese Buddhism. Secondary readings may be supplemented by indigenous Chinese sutra and sastra materials such as Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana, Visualization Sutra,Platform Sutra, Mulian Saving His Mother, etc. The course is intended for graduate students with a background in Buddhism, Chinese literature, or East Asian history or art history, who may not have a background in the study of Chinese Buddhism per se. (It is designed in part to serve as preparation for a Ph.D. qualifying exam in the area.) Permission of the instructor required.This course investigates the visual and material worlds of the mid-eighteenth century novel Honglou meng (Dream of the Red Chamber also known as Story of the Stone), while analyzing the thematization of visuality and materiality in the novel itself.  We will examine various models for conjoining the study of literary texts and visual and material culture as we engage in a series of case studies of types of objects featured in the novel.  Topics include:  perspectival painting and architectural painting, ceramics, garden design, bronze and glass mirrors, European objects, and furniture and interior spaces. We will invite local specialists in ceramics and classical Chinese furniture and examine Qing dynasty objects on field trips to the Asian Art Museum and the Berkeley Art Museum. The arts of reading a text, summarizing its argument, questioning its suppositions, generating balanced opinions, and expressing those opinions with clarity and effectiveness lie at the center of university life and educated human endeavor. EA Lang R1B is designed to help inculcate those skills, paying particular attention to East Asian humanistic topics. This four-unit course focuses on how to formulate questions and hone observations into well-reasoned.Section 1: Sense and (Non-) Sense in Japanese LiteratureThe arts of reading a text, summarizing its argument, questioning its suppositions, generating balanced opinions, and expressing those opinions with clarity and effectiveness lie at the center of university life and educated human endeavor. EA Lang R1B is designed to help inculcate those skills, paying particular attention to East Asian humanistic topics. This four-unit course focuses on how to formulate questions and hone observations into well-reasoned.Section 2: This course looks at how these questions have been asked and answered over a span of almost a millennium of Japanese literature. Moving through different genres (essays, short stories, poetry) and media (film, photography), we will look at how each of the five senses have been mobilized by different authors and artists to describe and destabilize – make sense and nonsense of – our perceptions of human experience. Each week will pair a primary literary text with a critical/analytical piece that both models strong academic writing and comments (directly or indirectly) on themes and issues found in the primary text. No previous knowledge of Japan or Japanese language is required.Through the analysis of "love"-related aspects of selected East Asian narratives (premodern literary texts and modern cinema), students sharpen their understanding of traditional East Asian values and, in the process, consider the status of such values in contemporary East Asia. On the one hand, students develop interpretive skills while exploring the traditional role of Confucianism, Buddhism and Daoism in "love" narratives, and, on the other, share diverse opinions on definitions of love in contemporary China, Korea and Japan. This class uses an “Active Learning Classroom” approach. Most course content is delivered outside the classroom via reading assignments and online lectures. In-class time is often exercises. Attendance is critical. No prerequisites. Open to all.This course explores the discourse on bioethics that has taken place in Asia, where traditional values concerning life, death, religion, and the relationship of the individual to family and society has often developed along lines quite different from what is normative in the West. The advances in recent biomedical research have raised difficult ethical questions in all societies, and these will be examined both as universal questions about the human condition as well as issues that demand clarification of the relevance of past approaches to defining what a human being is and what behavior taken to or on behalf of a human being is ethically acceptable. The core of the course focuses on debates within India, China, and Japan, but Korea and Southeast Asia may also be considered. We will look at bioethical writings within traditional religion and law on the subjects such as suicide, euthanasia, population control, abortion, sex-selection, genetic manipulation, brain-death, organ transplants, etc. Prerequisites: None.The 1960s were a time of radical upheaval and transformation, not only in the US, but globally. Many of us are at least superficially familiar with some of the iconic moments and movements of the era, from the Civil Rights Movement and anti-Vietnam war protest, to the emergence of rock music and the 'counterculture.' Berkeley and the Bay Area, of course, played no small part in this story. In this course, we will look at the 1960s through the lens of a very different locale: East Asia. Located at the frontline of the geopolitical divides of the Cold War, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan underwent convulsive urbanization and rapid economic growth under US-backed developmental regimes. In China, the utopian energies of Maoism fueled a political movement that dwarfed those of the West in intensity and destructive fury. While the radical hopes and violent disenchantments of those years often make the decade seem like a disavowed historical other, the 1960s remains crucial to any informed understanding of the East Asian present. In this course, we will explore the art, literature, music, and media culture of the East Asian 1960s on both sides of the Cold War divide. In what ways did East Asia participate in larger struggles for decolonization? How did the emergence of new global circuits for the distribution and consumption of ideas and images transform literary and artistic styles in the 1960s? How did the rhetoric of the era — with its emphasis on youth, immediacy, experiential intensity, sensation —  relate to technological and institutional changes in media culture?  Can we read the most distinctive artistic products of this period — from Maoist music and fashion to Taiwanese modernist fiction and musicals, and from Japanese avant-garde cinema to Hong Kong martial arts films and Korean melodramas  — not only in terms of local, but also global developments?  By the same token, is it possible to revise existing (US and Eurocentric) stories of the decade in light of the arts of the East Asian 1960s? Finally, what can the artifacts of that era (and the ways in which they are remembered now) tell us about the horizons of our own historical imagination? Prerequisites: None.What does it mean to “know” a person in writing, and how does one make oneself—or someone else— “known” through writing? Beginning with both ancient and modern philosophical and literary treatments of the topic, this seminar guides students in reading and writing about people, skills they will need long after this course has ended. Prerequisites: None. Japanese 1B is designed to develop basic skills acquired in Japanese 1A further. Students will learn approximately 150 new kanji. At the end of the course students should be able to express positive and negative requirements, chronological order of events, conditions, giving and receiving of objects and favors, and to ask and give advice. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisites: Japan 1A; or consent of instructor.This class explores major literary writers of modern Japan and introduces important cultural contexts from the Meiji Restoration (1868) into the 21st century. Analytic focus is determined by the key directions of the texts themselves, resulting in a wide range of topics including problems with individualism, definitions of the beautiful, moral weakness / strength, conundrums in apprehending or narrating truth, revenge, and aimlessness. Readings might include Higuchi (short fiction), Tanizaki (short fiction), Soseki (short fiction & novel: Kokoro), Kawabata (short fiction & novel: Snow Country), Dazai (novel: No Longer Human), Mishima (novel: Temple of the Golden Pavilion), A-Bomb literature (short fiction), Oe (novel: A Personal Matter), and Murakami (short fiction). All readings are in English translation. Students write analytic essays as part of the course. This class uses an “Active Learning Classroom” approach. Most course content is delivered outside the classroom via reading assignments and online lectures. In-class time is often exercises. Attendance is critical. No prerequisites. Open to all.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the more advanced language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; pop-culture, traditional arts, education, convenient stores, haiku, and history. Through the final project, students will learn how to introduce their own cultures and their influences. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary they acquired in the previous semesters, as well as study new linguistic expressions. An increasing amount of more advanced reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required. Prerequisites: Japan 10A; or consent of instructor.This course provides a general introduction to contemporary Japanese society and culture.  We will explore various aspects of contemporary Japan, from everyday things to political issues, learning from basic scholarly works on Japan and using popular films (in English).  Topics include popular culture and technologies, family and gender matters, education and socialization, Japanese identity and diversity, fashion and tradition.  The course offers not only ethnographic details of lives in Japan but also introduces the key concepts that are crucial for understanding Japanese society and culture in depth. Prerequisites: none.This course aims to develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, essays, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japan 100A; or consent of instructor.Students will be trained to read, analyze, and translate modern Japanese scholarship on Chinese subjects. A major purpose of the course is to prepare students to take reading examinations in Japanese. The areas of scholarship to be covered are: politics, popular culture, religion, sociology and history as well as areas suggested by students who are actively engaged in research projects. Two readings in selected areas will be assigned, one by the instructor and the second by a student participant. Prerequisites: Graduate student standing; Japan 10B and Chinese 100B or equivalents.This course helps heritage learners of Japanese who have completed 10X to develop further their linguistic and cultural competencies. More sophisticated linguistic forms are introduced and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, and different genres of Japanese reading and writing are practiced. The materials covered are equivalent to those of 100A-100B. Prerequisites: Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.Students develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills further while examining Japanese historical figures, events, background, stories, etc. Students read a variety of texts and watch videos related to Japanese history as sources for discussions to deepen their understanding of Japanese society, culture, and people from historical perspectives. Students conduct individual research on a topic in Japanese history, and write a short research paper. Prerequisites: Japanese 100, Japanese 100B, or Japanese 100X; or consent of instructor.A critical survey of the main themes in the history of Japanese Buddhism as they are treated in modern scholarship. The course covers the transmission of Buddhism from China and Korea to Japan; the subsequent evolution in Japan of the Tendai, Shingon, Pure Land, Nichiren, and Zen schools of Buddhism; the organization and function of Buddhist institutions (monastic and lay) in Japanese society; the interaction between Buddhism and other modes of religious belief and practice prevalent in Japan, notably those that go under the headings of "Shinto" and "folk religion." Prerequistes: None.This course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Japanese in its wabun (aka bungo) and kanbun forms (including kakikudashi). The class will read samples from a variety of genres, including material written in China that are read in an idiosyncratic way in Japan. Reading materials may include Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, scriptural commentaries written in China and Korea, Japanese subcommentaries on influential Chinese and Korean commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiography, apologetics, histories, doctrinal letters, preaching texts, and setsuwa literature. This course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Japanese. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful but not required. Prerequisite: Japanese 120; or consent of instructor.In J155 we read in the original language modern Japanese short stories by highly regarded authors from the Meiji through Heisei periods. The stories for this class are selected based primarily on these two qualities: distinct contrasts in written style and inherent interest of theme. Learning focus: Since we read in the original Japanese, there are inevitably questions of vocabulary and grammar. Our primary activity, however, is considering how sentence structure, rhythm, pace, word choice and dialect support a work's success as a literary object. Since we read a large number of short stories, the overall structure of the course also functions as an introduction to a variety of Japanese authors of merit. This class uses an “Active Learning Classroom” approach. Most course content is delivered outside the classroom via reading assignments and online lectures. In-class time is often exercises. Attendance is critical. Prerequisites: Completed or concurrent enrollment in J100B (as a minimum), or consent of instructor.This course deals with issues of the usage of the Japanese language and how they have been treated in the field of linguistics. It concentrates on pragmatics, modality/evidentiality, deixis, speech varieties (politeness, gender, written vs. spoken), conversation management, and rhetorical structure. Students are required to have intermediate knowledge of Japanese. No previous linguistics training is required. Prerequisites: Japan 10, Japan 10B, or Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.This course is a lecture and discussion course focusing on Japanese animation, or anime, as a medium from its earliest forms to contemporary works. We will think through issues of digital culture, seriality, transnational circulations, and the relation between anime, manga (comics), gaming and cinema; limited and full animation; cultural disaster and the post-war; bodies and sexuality, and queer/yaoi (BL) and otaku culture, as well as anime's place within contemporary media theory. We will view works by Miyazaki Hayao, Kon Satoshi, Anno Hideaki, Oshii Mamoru, and many others.This course is designed for students who have little or no prior knowledge of the Korean language. Students will learn the Korean alphabet and basic grammar. Prerequisites: None.With special emphasis on reading and writing, students will expand common colloquialisms and appropriate speech acts. Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.With equal attention given to speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural aspects of the language, students will learn vocabulary, expressions, and varieties of speech styles beyond the basic level. Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.This intermediate course will emphasize reading and writing so that students can reach a comparable proficiency with their already high speaking and listening skills. Prerequisites: Korean 10AX; or consent of instructor.Students will learn more advanced expressions and use them in reading and writing. Small group discussions will enhance speaking and listening skills. Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.Students will be introduced to advanced-level Korean by reading authentic texts and writing short compositions, summaries, essays, and critical reviews. Students will be encouraged to speak using advanced vocabulary and expressions. Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.This is an advanced course of reading and textual analysis in various areas including politics, economics, society, and history. Both fluency and accuracy will also be emphasized in speaking and writing with the goal of preparing students to conduct independent research in Korean. Prerequisites: Korean 100B or Korean 100BX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to prepare students for research or employment in a Korea-related field. Authentic materials will be used to discuss various issues in Korea. Students will write a research paper on the topic of their interests. Prerequisites: Korean 101 and Korean 102; or consent of instructor.This course examines representations of history and memory in contemporary Korean cinema. Korean films have displayed a thematic preoccupation with the nation's tumultuous past by presenting diverse stories of past events and experiences. The course pays close attention to the ways in which popular narrative films render history and memory meaningful and pertinent to contemporary film viewers. All readings are in English. Prerequistes: NoneA continuation of Mongolian 1A, This course furthers students' study in listening, speaking, reading and writing Khalkha Mongolian. Prerequisites: Mongoln 1A; or consent of instructor. A continuation of the Fall 2016 seminar that focused on the beginnings of tantric ritual in India with a particular focus on the ritual system of the Saravatathāgata-tattvasaṃgraha, this seminar moves forward by about one century to consider the rise of the Mahāyoga tantras and the *Guhyagarbha-tantra in particular.  The readings will center on the De kho na nyid kyi snang ba dam pa rgyan gi bsgom thabs, an extensive sādhana based on the *Guhyagarbha that is found only among the Tibetan Dunhuang manuscripts. Using this as our primary source, we will supplement it with secondary readings in western scholarship on the same period of tantric ritual development.  Attention will also be paid to how Tibetans assimilated these systems in the eighth to tenth centuries.  Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course develops beginning learners’ functional language ability—the ability to use Mandarin Chinese in linguistically and culturally appropriate ways at the beginning level. It helps students acquire communicative competence in Chinese while sensitizing them to the links between language and culture. The Hanyu Pinyin (a Chinese Romanization system) and simplified characters are introduced.Note: For students who: 1) are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment; or 2) are of Chinese origin but do not speak any dialect of Chinese and whose parents do not speak any dialect of Chinese. Students are responsible for enrolling in the appropriate level and section. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped. All Chinese 1A students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.The course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course continues to focus on training students in the four language skills--speaking, listening, reading, and writing with a gradually increasing emphasis on basic cultural readings and developing intercultural competence.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1A. If you have not taken Chinese 1A, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 1B students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed specifically for Mandarin heritage students who possess speaking skill but little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese. The course utilizes students’ prior knowledge of listening and speaking skills to advance them to the intermediate Chinese proficiency level in one semester. Close attention is paid to meeting Mandarin heritage students’ literacy needs in meaningful contexts while introducing a functional vocabulary and a systematic review of structures through culturally related topics. The Hanyu Pinyin (a Chinese Romanization system) and traditional/simplified characters are introduced.Note: For students who: 1) were born in a non-Chinese speaking country but were raised in a home where Mandarin (or Mandarin and another dialect) was spoken but possess little or no reading and writing skills in Chinese; or 2) were born in a Chinese-speaking country and received zero or limited formal education in that country up to the second grade. All students must take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped.The second of a two-semester sequence introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. The course will focus on the development of sound writing skills.This course is designed for students who are of non-Chinese origin and were not raised in a Chinese-speaking environment, or who are of Chinese origin but do not speak Chinese and whose parents do not speak Chinese. The course deals with lengthy conversations as well as narrative and descriptive texts in both simplified and traditional characters. It helps students to express themselves in speaking and writing on a range of topics and raises their awareness of the connection between language and culture to foster the development of communicative competence.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1B. If you have not taken Chinese 1B, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 10A students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course continues to develop students’ literacy and communicative competence through vocabulary and structure expansion dealing with topics related to Chinese heritage students’ personal experiences. Students are guided to express themselves on complex issues and to connect their language knowledge with real world experiences.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1X. If you have not taken Chinese 1X, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class.This course helps students further develop their linguistic and cultural competence in Mandarin Chinese. It trains students to use Mandarin more appropriately and confidently in speaking, reading, and writing. With the expanded repertoire of Chinese language use and the increased awareness of the differences between cultures and subcultures, students are equipped to negotiate their way in an intercultural environment.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 1Y. If you have not taken Chinese 1Y, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 10Y students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The required tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course continues the development of critical awareness by emphasizing the link between socio-cultural literacy and a higher level of language competence. While continuing to expand their critical literacy skills, students interpret texts related to Chinese popular culture, social change, cultural traditions, politics and history. Through linguistic and cultural comparisons, students understand more about people in the target society and themselves as well as about the power of language in language use to enhance their competence in operating between languages and associated cultures.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 100A. If you have not taken Chinese 100A, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 100B students are required to attend a weekly half hour tutorial. The tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100XA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 100XA. If you have not taken Chinese 100XA, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class.This course is designed for Chinese heritage language learners who have taken Chinese 100YA or an equivalent course. It guides learners to use their Chinese language knowledge and skills to survey portions of Chinese history and society and to comprehend Chinese cultural heritage in economic and socio-political contexts. Students read and analyze texts discussing cross-strait relations, Chinese people’s basic living necessities, and their changing lifestyles and mindsets since the economic reforms in mainland China. They are also introduced to several important historical figures in modern Chinese history and to modern literary works. In addition to the continuous development of reading techniques for communicative purposes, critical reading skills in the heritage language are also developed in order to interpret subtle meanings in texts. Different styles and genres of Chinese discourses in speaking and writing are further explored along with an increasingly sophisticated vocabulary, phrases, and structures. Moreover, students are required to be able to read both simplified and traditional versions of Chinese characters. The development of critical reading and writing skills enables students to understand more about people in the target culture and themselves, about what determines values and actions, and about the power of language.Note: Prerequisite of Chinese 100YA. If you have not taken Chinese 100XA, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class. All Chinese 100YB students are required to attend a weekly half-hour tutorial. The tutorial sections will be scheduled once classes begin.This course is designed to assist students to reach the advanced-mid level on language skills and to enhance their intercultural competence. Students read the works of famous Chinese writers. Movie adaptations of these writings are also used. In addition to reading and seeking out information, students experience readings by interpreting and constructing meanings and evaluate the effect of the language form choice.Prerequisites: Chinese 100B, 100XB, or 100YB. If you have not taken Chinese 100B, 100XB, or 100YB, to enroll in this class you must first take the online Chinese Language Placement Exam and be interviewed. Students are responsible for following the instructions at ealc.berkeley.edu to complete the placement process. They must also accurately inform instructors about their language proficiency level. Any student who enrolls in a class below his/her level will be dropped from the class.The second half of a one-year introductory course in literary Chinese, continuing the topics from the first semester, and giving basic coverage of relevant issues in the history of the language and writing system. This course examines the canonical texts of the late-imperial period, placing them in the context of literary culture of the Ming-Qing. The course focuses on a different set of texts each time it is taught; the aim is to introduce students to the primary issues in scholarship of late-imperial fiction and drama over a period of several years.Prerequisite: Chinese 110AThis fast-paced course is designed to help the student reach an advanced-high competence level in all aspects of modern Chinese. It prepares students for research or employment in a variety of China-related fields. Materials are drawn from native-speaker target publications, including modern Chinese literature, film, intellectual history, and readings on contemporary issues. Texts are selected according to the students’ interests. Under the instructor’s guidance, students conduct their own research projects based on specialized readings in their own fields of study. Research projects are presented both orally and in written form.Prerequisites: Chinese 101 and Chinese 102; or consent of instructorThis seminar provides an introduction to a broad range of Tibetan Buddhist texts, including chronicles and histories, biographical literature, doctrinal treatises, canonical texts, ritual manuals, pilgrimage guides, and liturgical texts. It is intended for graduate students interested in premodern Tibet from any perspective. Students are required to do all of the readings in the original classical Tibetan. It will also serve as a tools and methods for the study of Tibetan Buddhist literature, including standard lexical and bibliographic references, digital resources, and secondary literature in modern languages. In Spring 2018, the seminar focuses on 14th century Great Perfection (rdzogs chen) literature. In particular, we will read excerpts from Rindzin Godem's influential treasure revelation, The Unimpeded Realization of Samantabhadra (kun tu bzang po'i dgongs pa zang thel). Godem's revelation started the Northern Treasures (byang gter) tradition and contributed to the final synthesis of the Great Perfection. The five volumes of The Unimpeded Realization contain a large variety of literature, so we will read texts on Dzokchen contemplation, philosophy, narratives, tantras, severance practice (gcod), liberation through wearing (btags grol) and so forth. To support our understanding of the primary sources, we will read relevant literature in English and discuss it in class, but the main focus will be on reading Tibetan texts. This course explores popular, realist, and avant-garde literature from mainland China and Taiwan since 1949. We will consider how writers have engaged with the cultural dislocations of modernity by exploring questions such as the presentation of cultural and gender identities and the politics of memory and place. Central to our discussion will be the problem of how literature not only reflects but also critically engages with historical and cultural experience through a variety of genres. A crucial aspect of this course will be the development of skills in close, critical, and historically contextualized reading.Prerequisites: Chinese 100A or Chinese 100XA (may be taken concurrently)This course examines the development of Confucianism in pre-modern China using a dialogical model that emphasizes its interactions with competing viewpoints. Particular attention will be paid to ritual, conceptions of human nature, ethics, and to the way that varieties of Confucianism were rooted in more general theories of value.This seminar is an intensive introduction to various genres of Buddhist literature in classical Chinese, including translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian scriptures. Chinese commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiographies, and sectarian works. It is intended for graduate students who already have some facility in classical Chinese. It will also serve as a tools and methods course, covering the basic reference works and secondary scholarship in the field of East Asian Buddhism. The content of the course will be adjusted from semester to semester to best accommodate the needs and interests of students.Prerequisite: Consent of instructorThe period from the dissolution of the Eastern Han in the latter decades of the second century CE to the Sui unification in 581 witnessed the emergence of genres and discursive norms that were to become definitive for much of later tradition of elite writing, including a basic set of assumptions about the often complex relations between mastery of literary or philosophical disciplines and the exercise and projection of political or legitimacy and power. This seminar will be organized around a series of historical “nodes” (courts, salons, social cliques, or religious communities) that saw the rise of influential genres and discursive types, including the more or less definitive formulation of the principal genres of belletristic writing (much of which was also administrative/political in nature), the rise of new models of commentarial practice, a newly energized space of sectarian argument and polemic associated with the rise of organized Buddhist and Daoist communities, and the emerging systematization of the newly consolidated repertoire of literary genres as dimensions of a new language of imperial statecraft, forged particularly in the later “Northern” dynasty courts.Prerequisite: advanced reading ability in literary Chinese.This course examines the canonical texts of the late-imperial period, placing them in the context of literary culture of the Ming-Qing. The course focuses on a different set of texts each time it is taught; the aim is to introduce students to the primary issues in scholarship of late-imperial fiction and drama over a period of several years.This semester, we will study the issues of space and emotion in drama, fiction, and poetry throughout Chinese history, with the focus on the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries. The two issues are intertwined in the sense that emotion is reconceived not as an inner state of mind but as a spatio-ontological structure that has a history; conversely, such terms as space, time, and history will be understood anew through this spatiality of emotion. Covering literature, architecture, ritual practice, and intellectual discourse in antiquity to eighteenth-century in China, we pay special attention to the transformation from the ancient sphere of “winds” to medieval dreamscapes to early modern theatricality and sympathy. The goal is to chart an alternative history of Chinese philosophy, poetics, performance, and narrativity, explore diverse models of subject and community formation, and put on trial recent approaches of phenomenology, cognitive psychology, affect theory, and speculative realism."The use of metaphor, metonymy, and other figurative schemas to frame one aspect of our experience in terms of another is a central feature not only of literary texts but of language use in general. Indeed, some have argued that thinking itself is an extremely complex process of analogy-making and figuration. In this class, we will look at how figurative language is used in Chinese literature by closely examining a series of selections from ancient philosophical texts, medieval poetry collections, and modern short stories. This class has two main components. First, we will practice reading, outlining, summarizing, and evaluating a wide range of secondary literature drawn from the disciplines of philosophy, anthropology, psychology, and linguistics on the semantic, cognitive, and cultural dimensions of figurative language. Second, we will use the conceptual vocabulary we have built up through our reading of these secondary sources to describe and analyze the use of figurative language in a variety of different kinds of texts drawn from both premodern and modern Chinese literature. The hope is that by putting these two kinds of sources in dialogue, we will both enrich our own experience of reading and writing about these texts and re-sensitize ourselves to the ways we use figurative language in our own writing. No previous knowledge of China, the Chinese language, or Chinese literature is required.How do we know what is funny? The experience of laughing at jokes, comedy films, cartoons, or even a satirical tale is a part of every day life, and yet notoriously difficult to write about analytically. At the same time, some types of social engagement and critique are only possible through comic culture, especially in eras of strict censorship. This course explores the theory of comic arts and the history of comic culture in modern East Asia, focusing on the second half of the 20th century. Each week will pair a primary literary text from Chinese cultures (continental China, Hong Kong, or Taiwan), Korean cultures (colonial, North and South), or Japanese cultures with a critical/analytical piece that both models strong academic writing and provides tools to analyze the comic presentation of the primary text. No previous knowledge of East Asian languages is required.  This seminar will look at some of the great works of contemporary East Asian cinema, featuring films that explore love, family and friendship through the manifold alignments of class, gender and sexuality.  Screenings will include classics like Iwai Shunji’s Love Letter and Wong Kar-wai’s In the Mood for Love, along with other contemporary works by Kawase Naomi, Ann Hui, Tsai Ming-liang, and Park Chang-Wook.Note: Enrollment is limited to 18 sophomores.This course will examine comparative responses to and representations of violent conflict. We will pay attention to how catastrophic events are productive of new forms of expression--oral, written, and visual--as well as destructive of familiar ones. We will examine the ways in which experience and its representation interact during and in the aftermath of extreme violence. Our empirical cases will be drawn from our research on responses to WWII atrocities, and on the post-Cold War civil wars in Africa.This course explores representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. This is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance.This course provides a forum for reading and discussing East Asia’s greatest and most iconic modern writers, Lu Xun. We will closely read Lu Xun’s major works , discuss his role in the reinvention of the Chinese language and literary tradition, explore the global literary and intellectual currents with which he was deeply engaged, as well as situating him within the tumultuous era of colonialism, modernization, and revolution. All readings will be available in English translation.Higher Learning begins with the study of heaven. As the source of orientation in space and time, heaven provides humanity the foundation for its knowledge and political order. To understand what knowledge is or how politics function, we need a basic understanding of the ways of heaven. This course examines the function heaven serves in the founding of order against the void in nature through the formation of conventional systems of time and space and the role heaven has played in the promulgation of governments. From a cross-cultural, interdisciplinary perspective that covers the course of Eurasian history and using primary sources in translation, we will see heaven unfold through the developments that leave us with the world we know today.This course examines the multiple ways in which the enormous upheavals of modernity have impacted Buddhism and the ways in which Buddhist institutions, beliefs, practices, and values have responded, with a focus on Japan. Because the end of World War II changed the political landscape in fundamental ways throughout Asia, most notably the end of colonialism, the course will be divided into two sections: 1800 to 1945, and 1945 to the present. The course will focus on the example of Japan because of the unusual rapidity with which Japan began an accelerated process of Westernization and globalization at the end of the nineteenth, earlier than any other Buddhist nation, the rise of nationalism as an anti-Buddhist force, and the way in which Japanese Buddhist thinking has recovered from that period. This course is a capstone experience that centers on the philosophies and religions of East Asia examined from multiple theoretical perspectives. It comprises several thematic units within which a short set of readings about theory are followed by chronologically arranged readings about East Asia. Themes will alternate from year to year but may include: ritual and performance studies; religion and evolution; definitions of religion and theories of its origins; and the role of sacrifice.Prerequisite: Preference will be given to majors, especially those with junior or senior standingThis course investigates the theoretical and historical contexts under which "futurity" has emerged as a key concept in the environmental humanities and social sciences.  Tracking the ways in which the concept has been made central to bio-political, ethical and neo-materialist articulations, we will be thinking about ideas of the future as they arise in concerns about surveillance technologies, securitization and risks, health and toxicity, reproduction, preservation and extinction, environmental disasters and global warming, mutant ecologies and multispecies attentiveness. We will first engage with a few theoretical works on futurity (Edelman, Muñoz, Berlant, Puar, and Kafer).  Moving across national boundaries, we will then explore new questions and possibilities these works and others have opened up for rethinking (and queering) relationships between nature and culture, humans and environment, agency, objects and networks.  Readings will likely include Bruno Latour, Kimura Shuhei, Timothy Choy, Donna Haraway, Anna Tsing, Shiho Satsuka, Karen Barad, Jane Bennet, Tim Morton, Eduardo Kohn, Maria Puig de la Bellacasa, Naoki Kasuga, Kath Weston, Brian Massumi, Joseph Masco, and Rob Nixon.Japanese 1A is designed to develop basic Japanese language skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Students will learn the Japanese writing system: hiragana, katakana and approximately 150 kanji. At the end of the course, students should be able to greet, invite, compare, and describe persons and things, activities, intensions, ability, experience, purposes, reasons, and wishes. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Note: Enroll in Japanese 1A if you have minimal or no knowledge of Japanese.Japanese 1B is designed to develop basic skills acquired in Japanese 1A further. Students will learn approximately 150 new kanji. At the end of the course students should be able to express positive and negative requirements, chronological order of events, conditions, giving and receiving of objects and favors, and to ask and give advice. Grades will be determined on the basis of attendance, quiz scores, homework and class participation. Prerequisites: Japan 1A; or consent of instructor.An introduction to Japanese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. 7B provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course.The goal of this course is for the students to understand the more advanced language and culture required to communicate effectively in Japanese. Some of the cultural aspects covered are; pop-culture, traditional arts, education, convenient stores, haiku, and history. Through the final project, students will learn how to introduce their own cultures and their influences. In order to achieve these goals, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary they acquired in the previous semesters, as well as study new linguistic expressions. An increasing amount of more advanced reading and writing, including approximately 200 new kanji, will also be required.Prerequisites: Japan 10A; or consent of instructor.Introduction to contemporary Japanese culture and society.  Various aspects of contemporary Japan will be explored through a readingof  basic scholarly works on Japan and watching popular films (in English).  Topics include popular culture and technology, family and gender matters, education and socialization, Japanese identity and diversity, fashion and tradition, globalization and localization.  Class conducted in English.This course aims to develop further context-specific skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. It concentrates on students using acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing overall linguistic competence. Students will learn approximately 200 new Kanji. There will be a group or individual project. Course materials include the textbook supplemented by newspapers, magazine articles, short stories, essays, and video clips which will provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Prerequisites: Japan 100A; or consent of instructor.This course helps heritage learners of Japanese who have completed 10X to develop further their linguistic and cultural competencies. More sophisticated linguistic forms are introduced and reinforced while dealing with various socio-cultural topics. Close reading knowledge and skills, formal and informal registers, and different genres of Japanese reading and writing are practiced. The materials covered are equivalent to those of 100A-100B. Prerequisites: Japan 10X; or consent of instructor.This course provides students an opportunity to develop their reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills in order to express their opinions in argumentative discourse. Students read and discuss a variety of Japanese texts to deepen their understanding of Japanese society and people and to improve their intercultural communicative competence.Prerequisites: Japan 100, Japan 100B, or Japan 100X; or consent of instructorThis course is an introduction to the study of medieval Buddhist literature written in Classical Japanese in its wabun (aka bungo) and kanbun forms (including kakikudashi). The class will read samples from a variety of genres, including material written in China that are read in an idiosyncratic way in Japan. Reading materials will include Chinese translations of Sanskrit and Central Asian Buddhist scriptures, scriptural commentaries written in China and Korea, Japanese subcommentaries on influential Chinese and Korean commentaries, philosophical treatises, hagiography, apologetics, histories, doctrinal letters, preaching texts, and setsuwa literature. This course is intended for students who already have some facility in literary Japanese.Prerequisites: Japanese 120. One semester of classical Japanese. Prior background in Buddhist history and thought is helpful, but not requiredThis course will introduce students to the world of early modern Japanese travel writing through a close examination of Matsuo Bashō's 1702 Oku no hosomichi (Narrow Road to the Deep North).  We will read Bashō's poetic travel account in the original as well as look at how Bashō was influenced by earlier writers and how his work and life were understood during the eighteenth century.This course is an introduction to Japanese modernism through the reading and discussion of representative short stories, poetry, and criticism of the Taisho and early Showa periods. We will examine the aesthetic bases of modernist writing and confront the challenge posed by their use of poetic language. The question of literary form and the relationship between poetry and prose in the works will receive special attention.An overview of the concepts of theoretical, contrastive, and practical linguistics which form the basis for work in translation between Japanese and English through hands-on experience. Topics include translatability, various kinds of meaning, analysis of the text, process of translating, translation techniques, and theoretical background.Prerequisites: Japanese 100, Japanese 100B, or Japanese 100X; or equivalentThis course will examine the works of the novelist Murakami Haruki and the animator Miyazaki Hayao within the context of contemporary Japanese aesthetics and history. Both Murakami and Miyazaki debuted in 1979 and their work has very much defined Japan’s cultural experience from the tail end of the Era of High Growth Economics through the Bubble Era, the Lost Decade, and into the twenty-first century. Studentswill explore the works of these two figures in the context of the history of Japanese literature and film and its relation to larger political, social, and cultural trends of Japan from the 1980s to the present.The course considers the different literary, social and ethical formations that arise or are destroyed in disaster. It explores how Japanese literature and media, before and after 3:11, attempt to translate the un-representable, and in so doing, to create a new type of literacy about 1) trauma and the temporality of disaster, 2) precarity, community and the public sphere and 3) sustainability and ecological scale. The course will pay particular attention to a range of works that explicitly or obliquely reframe iconic or popular representations of disasters in cinema, literature and other media, taking into account of the readiness with which certain cultural forms lend themselves to vistas of disaster.Topics run from Japan's earliest extant poetic anthologies in Chinese (Kaifuso) or Japanese (Man'yoshu) to medieval linked verse (renga) and Edo haikai.Reading and critical evaluation of selected texts in postwar (roughly the 1940s through the present) Japanese literature and literary and cultural criticism. Texts change with each offering of the course.Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of instructorThis course is designed for non-heritage students who have absolutely no prior knowledge of the Korean language. Students will learn written and spoken Korean on self-related and day-to-day topics, and present information both in oral and written forms using formulaic and memorized expressions. They will also engage in simple conversational exchanges on a variety of daily topics.Prerequisites: NoneThis is a continuing course for non-heritage students who have completed K1A or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. Students will enhance and broaden their linguistic and cultural competence by learning more essential grammatical structures, daily life expressions and speech acts. The course is also intended to introduce certain cultural aspects through media sources and various activities.Prerequisites: Korean 1A; or consent of instructor.This is a continuing course for Korean-American heritage students who have completed K1AX or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. More emphasis will be paid on reading and writing in order to establish their balanced four language skills. Students will enhance their linguistic competence by mastering essential grammatical structures and more elaborated daily expressions, as well as accompanying cultures.Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.A survey of modern Korean literature and culture in the 20th century, focusing on the development of nationalist aesthetics in both North and South Korea. Topics include class and gender, urban culture, colonial modernity, war and trauma, and modernization. Texts to be examined include works of fiction, art, and film. All readings are in English.This is an intermediate course for non-heritage students who have completed K10A or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. Students will continue to improve their linguistic skills with the goal of becoming more proficient and fluent in daily and extended communication needs, with a special emphasis on listening and speaking. The course will introduce expressions, vocabularies, and complicated sentence structure and students are expected to carry on more sophisticated conversations on various topics beyond daily life.Prerequisites: Korean 10A; or consent of instructor.This is a continuing course for Korean-American heritage students who have completed K1AX or demonstrated an equivalent proficiency level. More emphasis will be paid on reading and writing in order to establish their balanced four language skills. Students will enhance their linguistic competence by mastering essential grammatical structures and more elaborated daily expressions, as well as accompanying cultures.Prerequisites: Korean 1AX; or consent of instructor.This course is a continuation of K100A for non-heritage speakers. It will place more emphasis on listening and speaking through various authentic materials. Students will conduct individual projects on aspects where they intend to improve on. Various cultural aspects in addition to four-letter idiomatic expressions will be also covered.Prerequisites: Korean 100A; or consent of instructor.This course is a continuation of K100AX for Korean-American heritage speakers. Students will be introduced to advanced-level Korean by reading authentic texts and writing short compositions, summaries, essays, and critical reviews. They will be encouraged to use advanced vocabulary and expressions including various idiomatic expressions. This course particularly emphasizes on heritage speakers’ speaking and writing competency.Prerequisites: Korean 100AX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to help students acquire strong proficiency in reading and writing in Korean at the advanced level and deepen students’ knowledge of Korean culture and society through readings, film and discussion. The focus will be on understanding the society and history of Korea as well as acquiring advanced-level vocabulary and expressions. Through discussions and writing exercises students will be trained to speak and write clearly in a formal manner.Prerequisites: Korean 100B/BX; or consent of instructor.This course aims to help students acquire strong language proficiency in spoken and written Korean at the advanced-high (or superior) level required for academic research and in business or other professional fields. The focus will be on building advanced-level vocabulary that is useful in understanding and expressing their opinions on topics, such as social studies, politics, business, policy, and history. Students will gain knowledge in four-letter words, complex idiomatic expressions and proverbs that often appear on editorials, news discourse, and academic writings. Students will also learn skills in formal oral presentations and writing.Prerequisites: Korean 101/102; or consent of instructor.This course will examine the works of major poets in the first half of the 20th century and will consider the formation of modern Korean poetry. Particular attention will be given to the ideas of lyricism, modernism, and the identity of a poet in the context of the colonial occupation of Korea.Prerequisites: 100B or equivalentThis course aims to facilitate critical understanding of persistent themes and diverse styles of modern Korean literature through close readings of canonical works from the colonial period (1910-1945). It encourages students to develop broad comprehension of “post-colonial” characteristics of Korean literature. Concurrently, it explores how Korean literature aspired to the expression of the universal aesthetic values and judgment against the particularistic historical condition of colonialism.Prerequisites: Korean 100A; Korean 100AX; or equivalent (may be taken concurrently)This course offers a historical overview of Korean cinema from its colonial development to its present renaissance. It covers Korean film aesthetics, major directors, film movements, genre, censorship issues, and industrial transformation as well as global circulation and transnational reception. In an effort to read film as sociocultural texts, various topics will be discussed. All readings are in English.This course examines the Mongol Empire founded by Chinggis Khan. We will study the empire from the time its founding in 1206 until its decline in the mid-14th century. The greater extent of the course covers the matter of the Mongol conquest: military technologies, methods and strategies, logistics, and the events of specific battles and actions. These events are framed in the context of the Mongolian culture: its scientific, political, and economic systems and over-arching worldview. The course also covers what comes from the conquest in terms not only of destruction but what the Mongols make of the world they've won. Readings for the course are of primary sources in translation.This course covers the history of Mongolian Buddhism from its inception in the Yuan dynasty to the present. The importance of Mongolian Buddhism to the greater dharma lies not only with the ways of its priests but also with the means of its patrons, the Mongol aristocracy, in forging a distinctive tradition in Inner Asia and disseminating it throughout the world. While maintaining a historical thread throughout, this course will examine in detail some of the tradition’s many facets, including Mongolian-Buddhist politics, the politics of incarnation, the establishment of monasteries, economics, work in the sciences, astral science and medicine, ritual practice, literature, sculpture and painting, music and dance, and more.Also listed as BUDDSTD C117.A continuation of Tibetan 1A, Tibetan 1B develops further listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern Tibetan (Lhasa dialect), with a gradually increasing emphasis on basic cultural readings and developing intercultural competence.Prerequisite: Tibetan 1AA continuation of Tibetan 110A, this course provides an intensive introduction to a range of literary Tibetan literature. Assuming knowledge of basic literary Tibetan grammar, the course focuses on selected readings from Buddhist texts in Tibetan.Prerequisites: Tibetan 110A, or consent of instructor.This course seeks to develop a critical understanding of contemporary Tibet, characterized as it is by modernity, invasion, Maoism, liberalization, exile, and diaspora. It explores the cultural dynamism of the Tibetans over the last 100 years as expressed in literature, film, music, modern art, and political protest. The core topics include intra-Tibetan arguments regarding the preservation and "modernization" of traditional cultural forms, the development of new aesthetic creations and values, the constraints and opportunities on cultural life under colonialism and in the diaspora, and the religious nationalism of the recent political protests.This seminar provides an introduction to a broad range of Tibetan Buddhist texts, including chronicles and histories, biographical literature, doctrinal treatises, canonical texts, ritual manuals, pilgrimage guides, and liturgical texts. It is intended for graduate students interested in premodern Tibet from any perspective. Students are required to do all of the readings in the original classical Tibetan. It will also serve as a tools and methods for the study of Tibetan Buddhist literature, including standard lexical and bibliographic references, digital resources, and secondary literature in modern languages. In Spring 2018, the seminar focuses on 14th century Great Perfection (rdzogs chen) literature. In particular, we will read excerpts from Rindzin Godem's influential treasure revelation, The Unimpeded Realization of Samantabhadra (kun tu bzang po'i dgongs pa zang thel). Godem's revelation started the Northern Treasures (byang gter) tradition and contributed to the final synthesis of the Great Perfection. The five volumes of The Unimpeded Realization contain a large variety of literature, so we will read texts on Dzokchen contemplation, philosophy, narratives, tantras, severance practice (gcod), liberation through wearing (btags grol) and so forth. To support our understanding of the primary sources, we will read relevant literature in English and discuss it in class, but the main focus will be on reading Tibetan texts.Prerequisites: Consent of instructorEver since the German geographer Ferdinand von Richthofen coined the term in the late nineteenth century, the "Silk Road" has captivated the western imagination, inspiring thoughts of fabled cities and exotic peoples from the Mediterranean basin across central Asia to China and Japan. In addition to discussing aspects of daily life on the Silk Road, this course will draw on a variety of disciplinary perspectives (history, anthropology, religious studies, and so on) to examine some of the underlying notions bound up in the study of such vast cultural regions under a single headway. Relying on the records left by a number of early Western travelers, we will trace the rise of the Silk Road in world history, and explore the role played by different religious traditions in the telling of that history, particularly Buddhism. Prerequisites: None.This course will examine Buddhism in the twentieth-century through film. Students will be asked to explore the tension between East and West, tradition and progress, fantasy and reality as it unfolds in different representations of Buddhism. In order to capture the global scale of these tensions, we will watch a variety of select international and domestic films that differ in both genre and content. With the help of supplemental readings, we will reflect upon how Buddhism has been imagined and transformed on screen and what the medium of film contributes to this process. Prerequisites: None.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year.Please note: Chinese 1 is not open to native speakers of Mandarin.This eight-week elementary-level course is designed for those who speak Mandarin but who do not read or write in Chinese. The course teaches both pinyin and traditional characters, introduces functional vocabulary, and provides a systematic review of grammar. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1AX-1BX offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor.Our goal in this course will be to learn to read and understand the great books of the Chinese cultural tradition. This enterprise begins with a thorough study of the grammar, syntax and vocabulary of the classical language, and builds very quickly toward sentences, paragraphs and complete essays. Since we read not artificial student texts but rather the great authors and books that stand at the foundation of Chinese civilization, we will engage all along with some of the greatest literature, writers and ideas in Chinese history. Prerequisites: Chinese 10B is recommended, but not required.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early and premodern Chinese up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century). Prerequisites: None.This 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to Taiwan.This course consists of lectures that provide a general overview of traditional Chinese culture from the early Zhou dynasty through the Tang (the 1st millennium BCE through the 9th century of this era). Special emphasis is given to the origins and development of philosophy, art, religion, prose, and poetry. The subjects to be covered include: the Chinese language and writing system, the classical canon, Confucianism and its opponents, historiography, the traditions and techniques of Taoism, hero cults and ancestor worship, burial practice, ghost stories, and the introduction of Buddhism and its role in early Chinese society. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.The first half of a two-semester survey of Japanese literature in English translation, 7A covers one thousand years of Japanese writing, including a myth-history detailing the origins of Japan, the development of the rich poetic tradition, female diaries, the classic, The Tale of Genji, medieval tales of wars and hermits, the no drama, and the haiku and travel diaries of Basho. It will focus on such key binaries as orality and literacy, poetry and prose, native and foreign, and masculine and feminine. The course will also stress student writing and principles of literary analysis. Prerequisites: None.An introduction to Japanese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. 7B provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 100A-100B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor.This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.A second-year, 10-week course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to speaking, reading, and writing. Approximately 150 Chinese characters are systematically introduced. This course is the equivalent of Korean10A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor.Ever since the German geographer Ferdinand von Richthofen coined the term in the late nineteenth century, the "Silk Road" has captivated the western imagination, inspiring thoughts of fabled cities and exotic peoples from the Mediterranean basin across central Asia to China and Japan. In addition to discussing aspects of daily life on the Silk Road, this course will draw on a variety of disciplinary perspectives (history, anthropology, religious studies, and so on) to examine some of the underlying notions bound up in the study of such vast cultural regions under a single headway. Relying on the records left by a number of early Western travelers, we will trace the rise of the Silk Road in world history, and explore the role played by different religious traditions in the telling of that history, particularly Buddhism. Prerequisites: None.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early and premodern Chinese up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century). Prerequisites: None.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. Prerequisites: None.This 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to Taiwan.This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.The first half of a two-semester survey of Japanese literature in English translation, 7A covers one thousand years of Japanese writing, including a myth-history detailing the origins of Japan, the development of the rich poetic tradition, female diaries, the classic, The Tale of Genji, medieval tales of wars and hermits, the no drama, and the haiku and travel diaries of Basho. It will focus on such key binaries as orality and literacy, poetry and prose, native and foreign, and masculine and feminine. The course will also stress student writing and principles of literary analysis. Prerequisites: None.An introduction to Japanese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. 7B provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 100A-100B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor.This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.A second-year, 10-week course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to speaking, reading, and writing. Approximately 150 Chinese characters are systematically introduced. This course is the equivalent of Korean10A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor.Continuation of J100A. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. Active student participation is not only encouraged but required. Prerequisites: Japanese 100A; or consent of instructor.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early and premodern Chinese up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century). Prerequisites: None.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. Prerequisites: None.This 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to TaiwanThis course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values might provide a narrative framework or, contrarily, the definition of transgressive acts. This analysis is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None. The recent translation of J-Horror to the Hollywood Big Screen will prompt our exploration of the various ways the figure of the supernatural emerging out of Asia are absorbed into Hollywood filmic conventions in their efforts to delight audiences with the shock of the new (and the thrills of endless renewal). We will focus our critical attention on the cinematic style of Japanese horror films as well as the significant role played by cinematic cultures in shaping our evolving notions of racial, sexual, and national difference. Course materials will be drawn from primary and secondary sources in film criticism, literary theory, gender studies and cultural history. All class materials will be in English translation. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year.Prerequisites: None.This course surveys Japanese literature and culture from the 9th to 17th centuries. We read poetry, fiction, auto-biographies and plays from Japan's classical, medieval and early premodern periods. Texts include traditional Japanese poetry (waka and haiku), The Tale of Genji, The Tale of Heike, noh drama, short fiction of the Edo period by Ihara Saikaku and plays by Chikamatsu Mozaemon including Love Suicides at Amijima. Prerequisites: None.7B provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 100A-100B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor.This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.A survey of modern Korean literature and culture in the 20th century, focusing on the development of nationalist aesthetics in both North and South Korea. Topics include "new woman" narratives, urban culture, colonial modernity, war and trauma, and diaspora. Texts to be examined include works of fiction, poetry, art, and film. All readings are in English. Prerequisites: None.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early and premodern Chinese up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century). Prerequisites: None.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. Prerequisites: None.This 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to Taiwan.This course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values might provide a narrative framework or, contrarily, the definition of transgressive acts. This analysis is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.This course surveys Japanese literature and culture from the 9th to 17th centuries. We read poetry, fiction, auto-biographies and plays from Japan's classical, medieval and early premodern periods. Texts include traditional Japanese poetry (waka and haiku), The Tale of Genji, The Tale of Heike, noh drama, short fiction of the Edo period by Ihara Saikaku and plays by Chikamatsu Mozaemon including Love Suicides at Amijima. Prerequisites: None.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 100A-100B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor.This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.A second-year, 10-week course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to speaking, reading, and writing. Approximately 150 Chinese characters are systematically introduced. This course is the equivalent of Korean 10A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early and premodern Chinese up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century). Prerequisites: None.An introduction to Chinese literature in translation in a two-semester sequence. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. Prerequisites: NoneThis 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.Business Chinese. This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to Taiwan.This course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values might provide a narrative framework or, contrarily, the definition of transgressive acts. This analysis is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None.Elementary Japanese - Intensive. This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.Introduction to Premodern Japanese Literature and Culture. This course surveys Japanese literature and culture from the 9th to 17th centuries. We read poetry, fiction, auto-biographies and plays from Japan's classical, medieval and early premodern periods. Texts include traditional Japanese poetry (waka and haiku), The Tale of Genji, The Tale of Heike, noh drama, short fiction of the Edo period by Ihara Saikaku and plays by Chikamatsu Mozaemon including Love Suicides at Amijima. Prerequisites: None.Introduction to Modern Japanese Literature and Culture. 7B provides a survey of important works of 19th- and 20th-century Japanese fiction, poetry, and cultural criticism. The course will explore the manner in which writers responded to the challenges of industrialization, internationalization, and war. Topics include the shifting notions of tradition and modernity, the impact of Westernization on the constructions of the self and gender, writers and the wartime state, literature of the atomic bomb, and postmodern fantasies and aesthetics. All readings are in English translation. Techniques of critical reading and writing will be introduced as an integral part of the course. Prerequisites: None.Intermediate Modern Japanese - Intensive. In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.Advanced Modern Japanese - Intensive. This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 100A-100B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor. Elementary Modern Korean - Intensive. This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.Intermediate Korean - Intensive. A second-year, 10-week course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to speaking, reading, and writing. Approximately 150 Chinese characters are systematically introduced. This course is the equivalent of Korean 10A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.The first in a two-semester sequence, introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early China through late medieval China, up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century); the course will also focus on the development of sound writing. Prerequisites: None.The second of a two-semester sequence introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. The course will focus on the development of sound writing skills. Please note Chinese 7B can be taken before Chinese 7A. Prerequisites: None.This 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.Business Chinese. This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to Taiwan.This course examines the development of Confucianism in pre-modern China using a dialogical model that emphasizes its interactions with competing viewpoints. Particular attention will be paid to issues of ritual, human nature and morality, stressing the way that varieties of Confucianism were rooted in more general theories of value. Prerequisites: None.This course will examine Japanese and Jewish Responses responses to twentieth-century atrocities. We will pay close attention to how catastrophic events are mourned and memorialized through narratives. After being grounded in the historical context, we will analyze eyewitness accounts of the events, memoirs, fiction, feature films and filmed testimonies, museum exhibits, war-crime trials and historical debatespan. We will discuss issues such as the nature of mourning and the process of mourning through art and culture; the memorialization of tragedy; the ethics of the representation of tragedy; revenge and survivor guilt. Throughout, we will be asking about the possibilities, and the difficulties, of comparing responses by different cultures to different types of atrocities. This will require accounting for differences in religious belief, notions of psychology, and literary and artistic form. Is the process of mourning universal? Are the responses to atrocity? Is comparing the Japanese and Jewish cases ethically suspect? How does a nation that has victimized mourn its own victimization? Prerequisities: None.This course explores the representation of romantic love in East Asian cultures in both premodern and post-modern contexts. Students develop a better understanding of the similarities and differences in traditional values in three East Asian cultures by comparing how canonical texts of premodern China, Japan and Korea represent romantic relationship. They explore how these values might provide a narrative framework or, contrarily, the definition of transgressive acts. This analysis is followed by the study of several contemporary East Asian films, giving the student the opportunity to explore how traditional values persist, change, or become nexus points of resistance in the complicated modern and post-modern milieu of East Asian cultures maintaining a national identity while exercising an international presence. Prerequisites: None.This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.This course is an overview of Japanese literature and culture, 7th- through 18th-centuries. 7A begins with Japan's early myth-history and its first poetry anthology, which show the transition from a preliterate, communal society to a courtly culture. Noblewomen's diaries, poetry anthologies, and selections from the Tale of Genji offer a window into that culture. We examine how oral culture and high literary art mix in Kamakura period tales and explore representations of heroism in military chronicles and medieval Noh drama. After considering the linked verse of late medieval times, we read vernacular literature from the urban culture of the Edo period. No previous course work in Japanese literature, history, or language is expected. Prerequisites: None.This course will examine the literary and cultural responses by writers and artists in twentieth-century Japan to the impact of modernity. Attention will be given to the problem of modernity as manifested in attempts to construct identities in conditions of cultural and social upheaval. Topics include the breakdown of tradition and the crisis of individualism; nostalgia and nationalism; war and cultural amnesia; the literature of atrocity; sexuality, power, and the dynamics of cultural influence; cultural authenticity; the postmodern. In addition to works by literary artists, we will examine film, architecture, photography, and dance. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 100A-100B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor.This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.A second-year, 10-week course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to speaking, reading, and writing. Approximately 150 Chinese characters are systematically introduced. This course is the equivalent of Korean 10A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor.This class will explore Tibetan civilization throughout the pre-modern period with an emphasis on literature, the visual arts, ethnography, and the history of Tibet's important cultural exchanges on the broader Inner Asian and Himalayan stages. The overall lesson plan will cover a wide range of Tibetan cultural forms and regions, and highlights the many international links that so animated Tibet itself and were crucial to the politics of Asia for many centuries. Furthermore, the theme of "early modernities" will be prominent in the readings in the second half of the course. Prerequisites: None.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.The first in a two-semester sequence, introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early China through late medieval China, up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century); the course will also focus on the development of sound writing. Prerequisites: None.The second of a two-semester sequence introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. The course will focus on the development of sound writing skills. Please note Chinese 7B can be taken before Chinese 7A. Prerequisites: None.This 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.Business Chinese. This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to Taiwan.This class is designed as a hands-on introduction to classical Chinese poetry, with an eye to developing the student’s ability to read and interpret poems in the original. Through the mutually informative processes of close reading and translation, supported by a selection of secondary writings offering relevant context, students will learn to perceive and articulate the aesthetic, formal, philosophical, and socio-historical features of selected poems thought to be representative of particular poets, periods, movements, and genres. Prerequisite: Chinese 10B or permission of the instructor. Advanced students in Japanese and Korean (with reading knowledge of Chinese characters) are welcome.This course will examine Japanese and Jewish Responses responses to twentieth-century atrocities. We will pay close attention to how catastrophic events are mourned and memorialized through narratives. After being grounded in the historical context, we will analyze eyewitness accounts of the events, memoirs, fiction, feature films and filmed testimonies, museum exhibits, war-crime trials and historical debates. We will discuss issues such as the nature of mourning and the process of mourning through art and culture; the memorialization of tragedy; the ethics of the representation of tragedy; revenge and survivor guilt. Throughout, we will be asking about the possibilities, and the difficulties, of comparing responses by different cultures to different types of atrocities. This will require accounting for differences in religious belief, notions of psychology, and literary and artistic form. Is the process of mourning universal? Are the responses to atrocity? Is comparing the Japanese and Jewish cases ethically suspect? How does a nation that has victimized mourn its own victimization? Prerequisites: None.Tea has a long and complex history in China and Japan. It has had a role in philosophical, religious, and literary discourse. It influenced, and was influenced by, visual arts, artisan endeavors, architecture, and social practices. This class considers the interaction of tea with arts, philosophy and poetics in premodern China and Japan. Broadly stated, we begin with the early tea origin myths of China then become more earnest in our analysis with events in the Tang and Song dynasties. While we cover briefly Yuan, Ming and Qing dynasties our focus swings towards Japan in the second half of the course where we look at tea practices in the Kamakura, Muromachi and early Edo periods. Comparing how tea was received in these two countries illuminates characteristics of both cultures and provides a unique example of how culture flows between them. Further, there is a dialectic between the ordinariness of brewing and drinking tea with the arts and philosophy and we therefore consider the cross-over of concepts (the movement of cultural “signs”), such as how yin-yang philosophy and the Chinese medical texts based on it created contexts for thinking about tea (Tang China) and how linked-verse poetics informed tea-related social practice (Muromachi Japan). Of necessity, this class devotes a certain amount of time to overview-level historical perspectives (era-specific economies, politics, religions) in both countries, geography, and, to properly situate the tea plant itself, we begin with the basics of tea’s origin and the evolving cultivation and leaf-crafting practices associated with the plant. Prerequisites: none.This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.This course is an overview of Japanese literature and culture, 7th- through 18th-centuries. 7A begins with Japan's early myth-history and its first poetry anthology, which show the transition from a preliterate, communal society to a courtly culture. Noblewomen's diaries, poetry anthologies, and selections from the Tale of Genji offer a window into that culture. We examine how oral culture and high literary art mix in Kamakura period tales and explore representations of heroism in military chronicles and medieval Noh drama. After considering the linked verse of late medieval times, we read vernacular literature from the urban culture of the Edo period. No previous course work in Japanese literature, history, or language is expected. Prerequisites: None.This course will examine the literary and cultural responses by writers and artists in twentieth-century Japan to the impact of modernity. Attention will be given to the problem of modernity as manifested in attempts to construct identities in conditions of cultural and social upheaval. Topics include the breakdown of tradition and the crisis of individualism; nostalgia and nationalism; war and cultural amnesia; the literature of atrocity; sexuality, power, and the dynamics of cultural influence; cultural authenticity; the postmodern. In addition to works by literary artists, we will examine film, architecture, photography, and dance. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course aims to develop further communicative skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing in a manner appropriate to the context. It concentrates on enabling students to use acquired grammar and vocabulary with more confidence in order to express functional meanings, while increasing linguistic competence. Course materials include the textbook, supplemented by newspaper and magazine articles and short stories to provide insight into Japanese culture and society. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 100A-100B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 10B; or consent of instructor.This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, listening, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.A second-year, 10-week course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to speaking, listening, reading, and writing. This course is the equivalent of Korean 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor.This course seeks to develop a critical understanding of contemporary Tibet, characterized as it is by modernity, invasion, Maoism, liberalization, exile, and diaspora. It explores the cultural dynamism of the Tibetans over the last 100 years as expressed in literature, film, music, modern art, and political protest. The core topics include intra-Tibetan arguments regarding the preservation and "modernization" of traditional cultural forms, the development of new aesthetic creations and values, the constraints and opportunities on cultural life under colonialism and in the diaspora, and the religious nationalism of the recent political protests. Prerequisites: None.This is a 10-week beginning Chinese class developing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in modern standard Chinese using pinyin and traditional characters. This course is the equivalent of Chinese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.The first in a two-semester sequence, introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7A covers early China through late medieval China, up to and including the Yuan Dynasty (14th century); the course will also focus on the development of sound writing. Prerequisites: None.The second of a two-semester sequence introducing students to Chinese literature in translation. In addition to literary sources, a wide range of philosophical and historical texts will be covered, as well as aspects of visual and material culture. 7B focuses on late imperial, modern, and contemporary China. The course will focus on the development of sound writing skills. Please note Chinese 7B can be taken before Chinese 7A. Prerequisites: None.This 10-week course is designed to develop the student's reading, writing, listening, and speaking abilities in Chinese, and teaches both simplified and traditional characters. This course is equivalent to Chinese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Chinese 1B; or consent of instructor.This course is designed as an intensive six-week immersion course in Business Chinese. The courses will cover intensive instruction in Chinese with an emphasis on communicative skills and understanding language in a authentic environment (mass media, business market, pop culture, Chinese cuisine, etc. In addition to the regularly scheduled classes there will be enrichment courses. Weekly field trips to: porcelain town, tea factory, banks, corporate offices, night market place, industrial parks, National Palace Museum and natural scenic sites. Each week there will be a lecture given by a representative from different trades or corporate enterprises i.e., HP and the American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei. Prior to these special lectures and enrichment courses, students will be given background language and cultural training in the various target topics. Prerequisites: Consent of Travel Study Program.Please note: Chinese 105 is a Travel Study Program to Taiwan.Through the analysis of "love"-related aspects of selected East Asian narratives (premodern literary texts and modern cinema), students sharpen their understanding of traditional East Asian values and, in the process, consider the status of such values in contemporary East Asia. On the one hand, students develop interpretive skills while exploring the traditional role of Confucianism, Buddhism and Daoism in "love" narratives, and, on the other, share diverse opinions on definitions of love in contemporary China, Korea and Japan. This class uses an “Active Learning Classroom” approach. Most course content is delivered outside the classroom via reading assignments and online lectures. In-class time is often exercises. Attendance is critical. No prerequisites. Open to all.This course is designed to develop basic speaking skills and to introduce hiragana, katakana, and approximately 300 kanji. Emphasis is on both spoken and written Japanese. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.This course is an overview of Japanese literature and culture, 7th- through 18th-centuries. 7A begins with Japan's early myth-history and its first poetry anthology, which show the transition from a preliterate, communal society to a courtly culture. Noblewomen's diaries, poetry anthologies, and selections from the Tale of Genji offer a window into that culture. We examine how oral culture and high literary art mix in Kamakura period tales and explore representations of heroism in military chronicles and medieval Noh drama. After considering the linked verse of late medieval times, we read vernacular literature from the urban culture of the Edo period. No previous course work in Japanese literature, history, or language is expected. Prerequisites: None.This course will examine the literary and cultural responses by writers and artists in twentieth-century Japan to the impact of modernity. Attention will be given to the problem of modernity as manifested in attempts to construct identities in conditions of cultural and social upheaval. Topics include the breakdown of tradition and the crisis of individualism; nostalgia and nationalism; war and cultural amnesia; the literature of atrocity; sexuality, power, and the dynamics of cultural influence; cultural authenticity; the postmodern. In addition to works by literary artists, we will examine film, architecture, photography, and dance. Prerequisites: None.In this course, students will learn how to integrate the basic structures and vocabulary which they learned in Japanese 1A/B in order to express a wider range of ideas in a manner appropriate for many social situations. Students are expected to participate fully in classroom activities and discussions. This course is the equivalent of Japanese 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Japanese 1B; or consent of instructor.This 10-week course introduces students to beginning level Korean, including the basic structures and hangul (Korean script). Emphasis is on speaking, listening, reading, and writing. This class is for students with minimal or no knowledge of Korean. This course is the equivalent of Korean 1A-1B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: None.A second-year, 10-week course in modern Korean with about equal attention given to speaking, listening, reading, and writing. This course is the equivalent of Korean 10A-10B offered in the regular academic year. Prerequisites: Korean 1B; or consent of instructor. EA C50EA C50C1A; C100AC7AJ7AJ1AEA C50K7AC1AJ1AJ1AC1AC188Japanese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramJapanese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramChinese ProgramAs a rule, students wishing to enter the graduate program should have completed an undergraduate program comparable to the undergraduate major in this department. Students who do not have B.A. or M.A. degrees in East Asian Languages and Cultures (Japanese or Chinese) or in similar fields can be considered for admission. If admitted, these students are often required to make up deficiencies in their course work. This can result in a lengthening of the normative time to degree (seven years).The department only admits students into the Ph.D program. You must indicate that a Ph.D. is your degree goal on the application materials. Students who have not completed an M.A. degree before beginning study at Berkeley will have to complete the requirements for the M.A. before proceeding to the Ph.D. program. After completion of the M.A. requirements (course- work and thesis), students are evaluated for permission to proceed to the Ph.D. portion of the program. Students who have completed an M.A. degree before beginning study at Berkeley may apply for admission directly to the Ph.D. program. After one year in the Ph.D. program, such students will be evaluated before being permitted to continue in the program.U.C. Berkeley graduate students from other disciplines who are considering transferring into the degree program in Japanese or Chinese language undergo the same faculty review as first- time applicants, however, they do not complete the Graduate Application. Students in this category should contact Graduate Degrees, 302 Sproul Hall, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-5900 for a Petition for Change of Major or Degree Goal and the department Graduate Assistant for a checklist of materials that will need to be submitted.The length of time needed to complete an advanced degree in the department depends on financial considerations, the extent of the student's earlier preparation, and other factors. Under optimum conditions, the M.A. can be earned in two years and the Ph.D. in an additional three to four years.Step by Step. To learn how best to prepare for study at the graduate level in the humanities and the social sciences, current undergraduates may find useful Step by Step, a resource for UC Berkeley students to enrich their undergraduate academic experience and to prepare for graduate school.The Graduate Application is submitted electronically; the online application becomes available in September for admission effective the following year. See the Graduate Division website for details. All applicants must use the online application.ALL APPLICATIONS FOR FALL 2018 ADMISSION MUST BE SUBMITTED ON OR BEFORE: DECEMBER 1, 2017.Applicants will submit unofficial transcripts, GRE scores, etc. on-line as part of the application. Admitted students will be required to submit two copies of all official transcripts in envelopes sealed by the issuing institutions at a later date.Foreign applicants are urged to examine closely the requirements for certification and translation of records provided by Graduate Application and the information on legal residency and fees. International students with F-1 or J-1 visas must pay nonresident tuition every semester of graduate study ($15,102.00 per year) in addition to instate fees ($18,631.50 per year). Doctoral candidates, however, may be eligible for a reduction in nonresident tuition (NRT) for three years after advancement to Ph.D. candidacy. See the Graduate Degrees office for more information on reduced NRT. Since TOEFL scores take 6 to 8 weeks to be mailed after you request the Educational Testing Service to report them to us, students should report their score on the on-line application. This will allow the Admission Committee to begin their review of the file immediately. (Note: An official report must still be submitted to the department from Educational Testing Service before a student can be admitted.)Within two to three weeks after the application deadline the department will email you, acknowledging receipt of the application and indicating any documents that have not yet been received. Please be sure to list your e-mail address when submitting your online Application.Fellowships are merit-based and are judged competitively. Only students who apply to EALC as the primary department of study are eligible to apply for outright fellowship support. We continue the policy, however, of offering GSI positions to students outside the department when the allotment of positions exceeds the number of EALC students who have applied. (See GSI paragraph below.) Fellowship applicants indicate their interest in University Graduate Multi-Year Fellowships, Departmental Block Grant Fellowships, Diversity and Graduate Opportunity Program Fellowships, and the FLAS on the online application. Please review the instructions in the Graduate Application to determine eligibility for these awards.Graduate students may apply for need-based financial aid, in the form of grants, loans and work-study, administered through the Financial Aid Office (FAO). Only U.S. citizens and eligible non-citizens (those holding permanent resident cards) may apply for funds administered by the FAO. Applicants complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form.A limited number of Graduate Student Instructor (GSI) appointments are available in the department each year. Students with these positions teach in the first-, second-, and third-year language courses or in the lower division literature in translation courses offered by the department. A faculty committee makes appointments to these positions on a yearly basis. Applications for these positions are available in February of the preceding academic year and must be requested separately from the department graduate program application. Please do not inquire about GSI employment until you have received an offer of admission. Students are not encouraged to accept a teaching position in their first year of graduate study. Many fellowships restrict or prohibit employment during stipend years. If you are awarded a fellowship, please review the terms carefully.Some Department faculty receive research grants with which they may hire Graduate Student Researchers (GSR), dependent on faculty research needs. A GSR appointment at 25% (approximately 10 hours per week) pays approximately $3000 per semester. Following admission, students interested in GSR positions should write directly to the faculty member(s) who share their fields of interest about the availability of such positions.* Students whose dissertation was written under the primary supervision of a professor in EALC.Integer magna turpis, molestie at odio sed, elementum dictum massa. Donec porttitor erat nec ligula sagittis; sed fringilla purus lobortis. Fusce mattis lacinia imperdiet. Nullam augue velit, fringilla in tellus in, venenatis lobortis orci. Duis porttitor enim mollis est porta porttitor. Phasellus mollis erat non adipiscing malesuada. Duis quis tincidunt metus? In justo nunc; bibendum ac consequat a, mattis at libero. Aenean consequat, purus ac cursus tempor, nunc erat tincidunt nisl, vitae aliquet erat ipsum non elit. Ut lobortis, magna scelerisque iaculis suscipit, est massa vestibulum elit, in interdum est leo sed libero. Praesent in mi eget arcu varius vestibulum? Aliquam accumsan leo ultrices feugiat feugiat? Aliquam ornare blandit arcu nec cursus. Duis faucibus malesuada justo, at ornare dui ultricies eu. Sed sit amet iaculis lacus, eu gravida diam. Phasellus lacinia viverra quam ut lacinia. Maecenas tincidunt fringilla justo, sit amet dapibus tellus vehicula at. Fusce dapibus enim in justo sagittis molestie a id enim? Nunc eu blandit turpis. Nulla ullamcorper lacus a leo lacinia adipiscing. Mauris fringilla nunc ut sapien volutpat; vitae imperdiet risus ornare. Phasellus sed. Application to Degree Programs  All prospective graduate students must apply for the Ph.D. program. The department does not offer terminal M.A. degrees; instead, an M.A. degree may be earned while progressing toward the Ph.D.Academic Advisor and Mentoring Committee  A Primary Advisor will be selected by the Admissions Committee at the time the student is sent a letter from the department recommending admission. Candidates for admission and new students will then have a contact point for questions about the program.The Primary Advisor initially assigned may be changed by the student at any time, in consultation with the current Primary Advisor and the Director of Graduate Studies.Make-up of Deficiencies After Acceptance  A student arriving with an M.A. may be admitted to start work on the Ph.D. requirements, but with the proviso clearly delineated in the letter recommending admission that any and all deficiencies for the Berkeley M.A. must be fulfilled in consultation with the Primary Advisor. The department may determine that the M.A. is not equivalent in coverage or quality and mandate a new M.A. from EALC (this includes the M.A. thesis).A student with an M.A. will have a review after the first semester, and a comprehensive review after one year [E1.8]. If he or she fails this review, he or she will be sent a letter of warning (a copy of which will also be forwarded to the Graduate Division, [E1.8]) and given a year to rectify all deficiencies. The Primary Advisor and the Director of Graduate Studies will carry out this review, then report to the department, which will determine the appropriate action.Chinese M.A. Fluency in modern Chinese and a year of classical Chinese.Chinese Ph.D. Reading competence in a language other than Chinese relevant to the program, chosen in consultation with the Primary Advisor. In most cases, the second language will be three years of Japanese. In exceptional cases, this requirement may be satisfied by competence in another language, normally demonstrated by three years of language study at Berkeley or its equivalent (F3.2). (Coursework must be taken for a letter-grade.) Native speakers of a language other than English do not automatically fulfill the language requirement; the language must be appropriate to advanced research in the program (F3.2).Japanese M.A. Fluency in modern Japanese and a year of classical Japanese.Japanese Ph.D.  Reading competence in a language other than Japanese relevant to the program, chosen in consultation with the Primary Advisor. Competence will normally be demonstrated by three years of language study at Berkeley or its equivalent (F3.2). (Coursework must be taken for a letter-grade.) Native speakers of a language other than English do not automatically fulfill the language requirement; the language must be appropriate to advanced research in the program (F3.2).Number and Types of Courses Required for the M.A. All courses required for the degree must be finished by the last day of the semester in which the student expects the degree to be conferred (F2.3).Students will have the option of taking additional seminars beyond the three required for the M.A. degree for two units, in which case no seminar paper is required. Each EALC seminar is structured with a 4 unit norm and 2 unit option.Students who will need to acquire a second language from scratch to satisfy Ph.D. requirements (q.v.) will be advised to begin work on that language as early as possible.M.A. Thesis  An M.A. thesis, usually based on a previous research paper and limited to 50 pages, is required. If the M.A. thesis involves a translation, the translation may be added as an appendix, which will not count toward the page limit.An M.A. Thesis Committee of three will be appointed by the Primary Advisor and the Director of Graduate Studies in consultation with the student. University regulations (F22) call for a chair, an inside member, and an outside member (or the less preferable alternative of a second inside member). The Committee will comprehensively analyze comments on the thesis, work done to date, and then recommend or not recommend advancement to the Ph.D. program. A student may not advance to Ph.D. coursework until permission to advance has been received and the M.A. thesis has been signed. Acceptance of the thesis does not automatically entail permission to proceed to the Ph.D., which is a separate decision.Advancement to Candidacy for the M.A. Degree  "Masters Students are not automatically advanced to candidacy; they must submit a formal application for advancement to candidacy no later than the end of the fifth week of classes of the semester in which they expect to receive the degree" (Graduate Studies Handbook F1.9).Mechanism for Continuation or Termination at the M.A. level  A review of graduate students will take place in the middle and at the end of their first year and annually thereafter, and conveyed to the students in writing (E1.8).Academic good standing requires the maintenance of a 3.0 grade-point average in all upper division and graduate courses (E1.4). A student with two or more Incompletes is academically ineligible to hold a student academic appointment (E1.4).At the end of the M.A. program, a determination will be reached regarding permission to advance to the Ph.D. program.If all requirements for the M.A. are not completed by the end of the fourth semester, the student will be warned that failure to complete the requirements by the end of the following semester may result in academic probation, in which case, the student cannot hold academic appointments or receive graduate fellowships (E1.7). A student who has been put on academic probation will not normally be eligible to proceed to the Ph.D. program until the condition is remedied.Ph.D. Requirements Two graduate seminars for a letter grade in the department are required after completion of the M.A., as well as at least one course outside the department in a cognate discipline, also for a letter grade.Ph.D. Qualifying Examination  Students must apply to take the Qualifying Examination no later than three weeks before the exam date since the Graduate Division needs this time to review the application " (Graduate Studies Handbook F3.3). It is highly recommended that students submit this application as far in advance as possible.In order to fulfill the eligibility requirements set forth in the Graduate Studies Handbook (F3.3), students must:The Qualifying Examination must be conducted in English.Choosing the Qualifying Examination Committee  In consultation with his or her Primary Advisor, a Qualifying Examination Committee is nominated at least one semester before the student enters the Qualifying Examination study period. After consulting with the Primary Advisor, the Director of Graduate Studies signs off on the nomination of the Qualifying Examination Committee. The committee is appointed by the Dean of the Graduate Division, acting on behalf of the Graduate Council. The EALC members of the Qualifying Examination Committee reserve the right to accept or reject the proposed outside field.Note that “affiliated faculty” (also known as “below the line” appointments) cannot direct Ph.D. dissertations. They are considered “outside members” of the department. This means that in the case of a qualifying examination or Ph.D. dissertation, they can only serve as “outside members.”Number of Members on the Qualifying Examination Committee Qualifying ExaminationThe following will be required:The purpose of the Qualifying Examination is to insure that the student possesses adequate breadth and depth of preparation needed to conduct dissertation research and teach. The student will normally choose reading lists in consultation with examiners and then meet regularly to discuss those readings with them. The written examinations will be based on those readings and discussions. The oral examination that follows is not meant to be a separate field of enquiry; instead, it is designed to pursue issues raised in the written segments.Normally there will be a nine-month period established for Qualifying Examination preparation (either fall and spring, spring and summer, or summer and fall). The student will set up meetings with his or her field examiners to take place during this period.The written examinations will take place at the end of the Qualifying Examination study period. All four written examinations and the oral examination must be taken within a six-week period. Written exams will usually be given one week apart, with a minimum of 72 hours between each. Each examination is open book and take-home, to be returned the following day before 4:00 P.M. Each should be 10-12 double-spaced pages (2,000-2,500 words), with a maximum of 15 (3,000 words).Each written examination will be read and judged by the examiner in charge of that field. Informal feedback on the each written examination may be provided to the student immediately by the examiner. But the result of the written examinations will not be determined until all four are completed.At the end of the written examination period, there will be a formal appraisal of the four examinations by the committee meeting as a group, and a decision will be made whether the student may proceed to the oral part of the examination or whether a remedial course of action is required.The oral examination will take place one week after completion of the last written examination. It will last three hours and be attended by all four members of the Qualifying Examination Committee. It will be devoted to further investigation of issues raised in the written examinations.In the case of a partial pass or failure, a remedial course of action will be required: partial reexamination, complete reexamination, or no recommendation to reexamine (F3.4). All members of the committee must be present for any reexamination.A determination will be made after the written components of the Qualifying Examination to assess whether the student is ready to proceed to the oral examination (E1.8). If the student is judged unready, a remedial course of action will be determined before the student attempts the oral exam. A student may be allowed to take a second oral exam. However, if after the second attempt, the student is still judged unready, university regulations about program termination will apply. No third attempts to pass the qualifying examination are allowed.Advancement to Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree  The Graduate Studies Handbook (F3.5) specifies that in order to advance to candidacy the student mustWhen a student has satisfied the eligibility requirements listed above, the student submits an application for advancement to candidacy to the Grade Division (F3.5). The Candidate in Philosophy (C. Phil.) degree may be awarded to students who have completed all degree requirements except the dissertation. Students recommended for the degree should possess the intellectual capacity to complete the requirements for the doctorate, according to Academic Senate regulations. If the faculty doubts a student can complete the requirements, the faculty should not recommend the Candidate in Philosophy degree (F4.1).A minimum of four semesters of academic residence must be completed for the Ph.D., and six for the M.A. and the Ph.D. (F2.6).Dissertation Prospectus The prospectus is defined as a preliminary plan for the dissertation, accompanied by a preliminary bibliography. A document of no more than ten double-spaced pages (excluding the bibliography), it will be written in the semester following the successful completion of the Qualifying Examination and after the student has advanced to candidacy, and submitted to the primary advsior.Dissertation Colloquium  After the student submits the dissertation, the department may invite him or her to hold a Dissertation Colloquium on the subject of the dissertation, to be funded by the department.Normative Time Effective 2004, the student has ten semesters of Normative Time after entering the program to complete the Qualifying Examinations and submit a petition to advance to candidacy to be eligible for the Dean's Normative Time Fellowship (DNTF). If the student successfully advances before or during the tenth semester, he or she is awarded a Normative Time grant for one year of support, which must be used within the two-year Normative Time in candidacy period (F.3.7). If a student advances in the eleventh or twelfth semester, he or she is eligible for one semeter of the DNTF, and must claim it within the student's remaining time in candidacy.Applications are reviewed and ranked by the entire faculty. The faculty makes its selection on the basis of academic records and on whether or not the applicant's academic goals can be met by the department's programs. Those chosen are recommended to the Graduate Division, which sets the number of students the department can admit, makes a final review of the applications, and issues an official letter of admission to the student. The number of students the department can admit is usually very small and standards for admission are highly competitive. Students admitted with fellowship are notified by mid-February and those admitted for admission without fellowship by mid-March. Please direct inquiries about admission status to the Graduate Admissions office.Three letters of recommendation are required. As part of the application you will have to submit the names and contact information for the letter writers. Letters in languages other than English should be translated into English, but the original letter, in the original language, must be included. The Department recommends that letters of recommendation come from faculty members who can comment on the applicant's intellectual capacity, analytical skills, ability to write English, and general aptitude for scholarly work. Letters from nonacademic referees are rarely helpful. All letters must be submitted on-line by the recommenders no later than two weeks after the application deadline to ensure that they are included in the review process.Writing sample: A writing sample in English must be included with the on-line application. The writing sample is intended to gauge an applicant's academic writing ability, and should be a paper that the student feels best represents the quality of his/her work. An ideal writing sample will be around 20 pages on a topic related to East Asian studies, but a paper on another topic or of a different length may be acceptable.All applicants are required to take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Only scores from the past five years are acceptable. Applicants should plan to take the GRE General Exam well before the application deadline. To send an official score to Berkeley be sure to list the institutional code for Berkeley (R4833) and the ETS departmental code for Asian Languages (2601). For more information, contact Educational Testing Service, Box 6000, Princeton, NJ 08541-6000; (609) 771-7670 or 1-800-GRE-CALL.Applicants from Abroad: International applicants are urged to examine closely the requirements for certification and translation of records and TOEFL requirements provided in the Graduate Application and the information on legal residency and fees. International students with F-1 or J-1 visas must pay nonresident tuition every semester of graduate study in addition to instate fees.The department offers two types of language exams: placement and proficiency. Placement exams are for those students who plan to enroll in one of our language courses. Proficiency exams are for students who wish to waive a college or major foreign language requirement without taking a course.The Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures offers undergraduate majors in Chinese, Japanese, and East Asian Religion Thought and Culture as well as a sequence of courses in Korean language and literature. The Department also offers undergraduate minors in Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Tibetan. The mission of the undergraduate major is to train students in the humanistic study of the languages, literatures, and cultures of East Asia. The curriculum centers around the informed and engaged reading of a wide variety of East Asian texts in their historical and cultural context, as well as the development of effective writing skills and critical thinking. Students are introduced to the vast and variegated literary, artistic, philosophical, and cultural traditions of East Asia and their transformations in modernity. Course offerings situate the study of East Asia in a global context, and expose students to a variety of disciplinary and comparative approaches.Undergraduate AdvisingNeed advice? Grant Tompkins, Student Services Advisor (undergraduate advisor/ graduate assistant) holds drop-in office hours regularly: Tuesday through Thursday 9 am-12 pm and 1-4 pm No appointment is necessary. The major provides training in speaking, reading, and writing the relevant modern languages, as well as a basic familiarity with one or more of the language's earlier forms. Students complete the major by selecting from a broad range of courses in literature, popular cultures, philosophy, and linguistics, both in translation and in the original languages.The department offers a two-semester honors program for its majors who have a 3.5 GPA in the major and a 3.3 GPA overall. This program allows qualified students to work closely with a faculty member in independent study ending in a senior honor's thesis. Students interested in the honors program should consult with the undergraduate advisor.Students who major in the department have a variety of backgrounds and many students are double majors in a broad spectrum of other departments and programs including: Anthropology, Applied Mathematics, Architecture, Art History, Art Practice, Asian Studies, Business, Comparative Literature, Computer Science, Economics, English, Linguistics, Mass Communications, Molecular and Cell Biology, Political Economy of Industrial Societies (PEIS), Political Science, Psychology, Rhetoric, and Theater Arts.Step by Step. Undergraduates interested in going on to graduate school are encouraged to begin preparations early in their undergraduate career. Step by Step is a resource for UC Berkeley students to enrich their undergraduate academic experience and to prepare for graduate school. It is a useful tool providing advice, highlighting campus services and assisting you to set goals, enhancing your path to graduate study.Grant Tompkins, Student Services Advisor (undergraduate advisor / graduate assistant), holds drop-in office hours regularly Tuesday through Thursday 9-12 and 1-4. No appointment is necessary.Email: ealc-advising@berkeley.eduOffice: 3414 DwinellePhone: 510-642-4497Taking Chinese Language? Please take the online placement test. When you have finished, please submit a completed Chinese Class Survey to the lead instructor listed for the course indicated by the test. The lead instructor's contact information is found here. You may register for the course recommended by the placement test; final placement will be determined after an interview with the lead instructor. You will need to bring an essay to the interview. Please download the instructions for the essay.Taking Japanese Language? Read how to schedule a placement exam.Taking Korean Language? Please refer to the course descriptions for Korean language, sign up for a course, then come to the first class for the Korean placement test and interview.These tests are administered once every semester. There are no make-up tests given.This IS NOT a placement test. These tests are for those who are seeking to have their foreign language requirement waived. You MUST be ON time. Remember to bring your student ID and a pen or pencil. Please note: Our proficiency tests are for admitted UCB students only. We do not offer proficiency tests for UCB applicants or non-UCB students.Korean — No preregistration necessary Date: Wednesday, January 17, 2018  Time: 2:00 – 4:00 p.m.  Location: 3401 DwinelleTibetan — Must contact Jann Ronis (jann.ronis@berkeley.edu) prior to exam Date: tbdTime: tbdLocation: tbdChinese — Must contact Lihua Zhang (zhanglihua@berkeley.edu) at least one day prior to exam. Please include your student ID, email address, major, and background of learning Chinese.  Date: Wednesday, January 17, 2018  Time: 3:00 – 5:00 p.m. Location: B-21 DwinelleJapanese — Must contact Yasuko Konno Baker (ykonno@berkeley.edu) prior to exam  Date: Friday, January 12, 2018 Time: 2:00pm Location: B-21 DwinelleTry sample test (if interested) at http://japanese.berkeley.edu/Click “Placement Guidelines” under “Courses” Sample Tests: Chinese Test Information:Korean Test Information:This test will consist of written parts only (Level 1 to Level 3). Evaluation of the Tests: The test is evaluated in terms of the number of university-level study. (The range is from zero semesters to more than ten). Test Results: Instructions on when and how you will find the results of the test will be given at the time of the test. You must bring the name and email address of the person and/or Department that needs to receive the test results. Students interested in majoring in the department should consult with the staff undergraduate advisor regarding major requirements, transfer credits, and other academic concerns. Students are admitted to the major only after successful completion (with a grade of C or higher) of the prerequisites to the major. Students are advised to begin preparation for the major as soon as possible in order to satisfy University, College, and department requirements. All students should be familiar with the College requirements for graduation with a Bachelor of Arts degree, as explained in the "Earning your Degree," a bulletin available from the College of Letters and Science, 206 Evans Hall. Students should also review the Berkeley Academic Guide for additional information on academic policies and undergraduate education.Major + Minor RequirementsView Chinese Major/Minor Requirements hereView Japanese Major/Minor Requirements hereView East Asian Religion, Thought and Culture Requirements hereView Korean Minor Requirements hereView Tibetan Minor Requirements hereView Buddhism Minor Requirements here***The Buddhist Studies Minor is now offered by the Group in Buddhist Studies.***Please note that students with previous language experience will be required to take the online placement exam. Students who place out of language courses or into the heritage track will be required to take additional advisor-approved literature or culture courses offered by the Department in order to meet the above unit requirements.***To declare the Chinese minor, please go to 3413 Dwinelle Hall.*** Please note that students with previous language experience will be required to take the online placement exam.Knowledge of philosophical and religious traditions is important to understanding many aspects of East Asia's diverse cultures. This major seeks to train students in these traditions in a way that is grounded in a familiarity with the texts, languages, and cultures of East Asian societies, while also examining how these traditions have been (and might better be) brought into the humanistic disciplines. Prerequisites (Must earn a letter grade of C or higher for List A course; must earn a letter grade of B of higher for elementary language courses)Lower Division (minimum of 8 units)Upper Division (minimum of 9 letter-graded courses and 3 units; minimum GPA of 2.0)Of the six courses from List A, a maximum of two semesters of classical language study and no more than one lower division course may be counted toward fulfilling the requirements.  The two lists of courses (List A & List B) will be updated periodically, and the full listings will be available on the departmental website.The department offers a two-semester honors program for its majors who have a 3.5 GPA in the major and a 3.3 GPA overall. This program allows qualified students to work closely with a faculty member in independent study ending in a senior honor's thesis. Students interested in the honors program should consult with the undergraduate advisor.* Please note that students with previous language experience will be required to take the online placement exam. Students who place out of language courses or into the heritage track will be required to take additional advisor-approved literature or culture courses offered by the Department in order to meet the above unit requirements.EA Lang C50 Introduction to the Study of BuddhismEA Lang 110 Bio-Ethical Issues in East Asian ThoughtEA Lang C120 Buddhism on the Silk RoadEA Lang C122 Buddhist Meditation: Historical, Doctrinal, and Ethnographic PerspectivesEA Lang C128 Buddhism in Contemporary SocietyEA Lang C130 Zen BuddhismEA Lang C132 Pure Land BuddhismEA Lang C135 Tantric Traditions of Asia BuddStd 190 Topics in the Study of Buddhism: When topic is relevant (see advisor for approval) Chinese 51 Chinese Thought in the Han DynastyChinese 110A Introduction to Literary ChineseChinese 110B Introduction to Literary ChineseChinese C116 Buddhism in ChinaChinese 130 Topics in DaoismChinese C140 Readings in Chinese Buddhist TextsChinese C185 Introduction to Chinese PhilosophyChinese 186 Confucius and His Interpreters Japan C115 Japanese BuddhismJapan 116 Introduction to the Religions of JapanJapan 120 Introduction to Classical JapaneseJapan C141 Introductory Readings in Japanese Buddhist TextsJapan 144 Edo LiteratureJapan 146 Japanese Historical Documents Mongoln C117 Mongolian Buddhism Tibetan 110A Intensive Readings in TibetanTibetan 110B Intensive Readings in TibetanTibetan C114 Tibetan BuddhismTibetan 116 Traditional TibetTibetan C154 Death, Dreams, and Visions in Tibetan Buddhism Art HistoryHistArt 130A Early Chinese Art, Part IHistArt 131A Sacred Arts in ChinaHistArt 134A Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Temple Art & Architecture in JapanHistArt 134B Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Icons in JapanHistArt 134C Topics in Buddhist Art and Architecture: Buddhist Art in the Modern/Contemporary WorldHistArt 190A Special Topics in Fields of Art History: Asian: When topic is relevant (see advisor for approval) FilmChinese 172 Contemporary Chinese Language CinemaEA Lang C124 Buddhism and FilmEA Lang 180 East Asian Film: Directors and their ContextsEA Lang 181 East Asian Film: Special Topics in GenreJapan 185 Introduction to Japanese CinemaJapan 188 Japanese Visual Culture: Introduction to AnimeJapan 189 Topics in Japanese FilmKorean 186 Introduction to Korean CinemaKorean 187 History and Memory in Korean CinemaKorean 188 Cold War Culture in Korea: Literature and FilmKorean 189 Korean Film Authors HistoryHistory 100 Special Topics: When topic is relevant (see advisor for approval)History 103F Proseminar: Problems in Interpretation in the Several Fields of History: Asia: When topic is relevant (see advisor for approval)History 113A Traditional Korean HistoryHistory 113B Modern Korean HistoryHistory 116A China: Early ChinaHistory 116B China: Two Golden Ages: China During the Tang and Song DynastiesHistory 116C China: Modern ChinaHistory 116D China: Twentieth-Century ChinaHistory 116G Imperial China and the WorldHistory 117A Topics in Chinese History: Chinese Popular CultureHistory 117D Topics in Chinese History: The Chinese Body: Gender and Sex, Health, and MedicineHistory 118A Japan: Japan, Archaeological Period to 1800History 118B Japan: Japan 1800-1900History 118C Japan: Empire and Alienation: The 20th Century in JapanHistory 119A Topics in Japanese History: Postwar JapanMongoln 116 The Mongol EmpireMongoln 118 Modern MongoliaTibetan 118 The Politics of Modern TibetTibetan 119 Tibetan Medicine in History and Society MusicChinese C184 Sonic Culture in ChinaMusic 134A Music of the East Asia TraditionMusic 134B Music of Japan PhilosophyPhilos 153 Chinese Philosophy Religious StudiesAnthro 158 Religion and AnthropologyEA Lang C126 Buddhism and the EnvironmentChinese 182 Death and Funerary Practice in ChinaReligSt 190 Topics in Religious Studies: When topic is relevant (see advisor for approval) Asian LiteratureChinese 120 Ancient Chinese ProseChinese 122 Ancient Chinese PoetryChinese 134 Readings in Classical Chinese PoetryChinese 136 Readings in Medieval ProseChinese 153 Reading TaiwanChinese 155 Readings in Vernacular Chinese LiteratureChinese 156 Modern Chinese LiteratureChinese 157 Contemporary Chinese LiteratureChinese 158 Reading Chinese CitiesChinese 176 Bad Emperors: Fantasies of Sovereignty and Transgression in the Chinese TraditionChinese 178 Traditional Chinese DramaChinese 179 Exploring Premodern Chinese NovelsChinese 180 The Story of the StoneChinese 187 Literature and Media Culture in TaiwanChinese 188 Popular Culture in 20th-Century ChinaEA Lang 101 Catastrophe, Memory, and Narrative: Comparative Responses to Atrocity in the Twentieth CenturyEA Lang 105 Dynamics of Romantic Core Values in East Asian Premodern Literature and Contemporary FilmEA Lang 106 Expressing the Ineffable in China and Beyond: The Making of Meaning in Poetic WritingEA Lang 107 War, Empire, and Literature in East AsiaEA Lang 108 Revising the Classics: Chinese and Greek Poetry in TranslationEA Lang 109 History of the Culture of Tea in China and JapanEA Lang 111 Reading Global Politics in Contemporary East Asian LiteratureEA Lang 112 The East Asian SixtiesEA Lang 114 Illness Narratives, Vulnerable BodiesEA Lang 115 Knowing Others, and Being Known: The Art of Writing PeopleEA Lang 116 Modern East Asian FictionEA Lang 118 Sex and Gender in Premodern Chinese CultureJapan 130 Classical Japanese PoetryJapan 132 Premodern Japanese Diary (Nikki) LiteratureJapan 140 Heian ProseJapan 155 Modern Japanese LiteratureJapan 159 Contemporary Japanese LiteratureJapan 170 Classical Japanese Literature in TranslationJapan 173 Modern Japanese Literature in TranslationJapan 177 Urami: Rancor and Revenge in Japanese LiteratureJapan 180 Ghosts and the Modern Literary ImaginationJapan 181 Mediating Disaster: Fukushima, Before and AfterKorean 130 Genre and Occasion in Traditional PoetryKorean 140 Narrating Persons and Objects in Traditional Korean ProseKorean 150 Modern Korean PoetryKorean 153 Readings in Modern Korean LiteratureKorean 155 Modern Korean FictionKorean 157 Contemporary Korean LiteratureKorean 170 Intercultural Encounters in Korean LiteratureKorean 172 Gender and Korean LiteratureKorean 174 Modern Korean Fiction in TranslationKorean 180 Critical Approaches to Modern Korean LiteratureKorean 185 Picturing KoreaMongoln 110 Literary MongolianTibetan 115 Contemporary Tibet Prerequisites (Must earn a letter grade of C or higher) Please note that students with previous language experience will be required to take the online placement exam. Students who place out of language courses or into the heritage track will be required to take additional advisor-approved literature or culture courses offered by the Department in order to meet the above unit requirements. ***To declare the Japanese minor, please go to 3413 Dwinelle Hall.*** Please note that students with previous language experience will be required to take a placement exam with Department language coordinators.***To declare the Korean minor, please see go to 3413 Dwinelle Hall.*** Please note that students with previous language experience will be required to take a placement exam with Department language coordinator***To declare the Tibetan minor, please see go to 3413 Dwinelle Hall.*** Please note that students with previous language experience will be required to take a placement exam with Department language coordinator