http://german.berkeley.edu/about/giving-to-the-german-department/ /n




 To make a secure credit card gift to the Department of German, click here!Your support allows the Department of German to assist graduate and undergraduate students. We gladly acknowledge your gift and will let you know how we spent it. You are welcome to specify how your contribution will be used. Some of our most urgent needs are study and travel stipends for our German majors; travel subsidies for our doctoral students who want to give papers at conferences; summer study grants for undergraduate and graduate students; and gifts to upgrade our departmental library and facilities.If you would like to give a graduate student fellowship in your name or any other major award (for instance, a prize in your name for best essay or for excellence in teaching German language), please contact the Chair of the Department, Professor Deniz Göktürk either by email, phone (510.642.7445), fax (510.642.3243), or letter (c/o Department of German, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720).If you prefer to support the German Department with an unrestricted gift, please see Giving to the department. If you would like to make a gift by check, please make it payable to "UC Berkeley Foundation, German Department" and mail it to UC Berkeley Foundation, Gift Processing, File #31932, PO Box 60000, San Francisco, CA 94160, to have it acknowledged for tax purposes.If you want more information about other types of gifts, please consult Give to Cal. For further questions, please call the Office of College Relations at (510) 643-1964.Your support is greatly appreciated.This panel discusses the Low Countries' holiday blackface character Zwarte Piet (Black Pete) and the ongoing contestations it raises in the Netherlands from several perspectives. What can Black Pete tell about the way in which the Netherlands deals with its legacy of colonialism and slavery? Can the Black Pete controversies  ...read moreNo German is required for the following courses. Please note that not all courses are offered each semester. For courses taught, please see the university schedule of classes.Arts and LiteratureGerman: 25, 39A, 39B, 39C, 39D, 39E, 39F, 39H, 39I, 39L, 100, 101, 102A, 105, C109, 110, 111, 112, C113, 120, 121, 122, 123, 130, 132, 140, 141, 142, 143, 145, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 156, C159, 161, 162, 165, 168, 175B, 175C, 176, 180, 180B, 181, 182, 183, 185, 186, 187Dutch: 140, 150, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 177Historical StudiesGerman: 39E, 120, 123, 141, 150, 153, 154, 157A, 157C, 157D, C157B, 160A, 160B, 160C, 160K, 164, 170, 176, 177Dutch: 39A, C170, 173, 175, 177, C178International StudiesGerman: 3, 4, 50, 100, 101, 102A, 102B, 102C, 102D, 103, 150, 160D, 188Dutch: 110, 125, C170, 174Philosophy and ValuesGerman: C75, C113, 142, 143, 157A, 157C, 157D, C157B, C159, 162, 164, 176Social and Behavioral SciencesGerman: 25, 39F, 50, 102D, 103, 106, C109, 150, C159, 160A, 160B, 160C, 160D, 160K, 164, 171, 172, 173, 174, 177, 178, 180BDutch: 39A, C170, 173, 174, 175, C178, 179This semester's compact seminar will be "The Body in Literature," taught by Max Kade Distinguished Visiting Professor Claudia Benthien.This course only meets only the following five Fridays from 2-5 p.m. in 282 Dwinelle Hall: August 29, September 5, September 12, September 19, and September 26.Das Seminar zum Koerper in der Literaturì widmet sich einem Gegenstand, der in der kulturwissenschaftlich orientierten Germanistik seit den fruehen 1990er Jahren Popularitaet erlangt hat. Es fuehrt in zentrale Arbeitsbereiche und Themenfelder ein und erprobt ein Verfahren, dass Literatur und Wissensdiskurse verknoepft. Im historischen Durchlauf und anhand von unterschiedlichen literarischen Gattungen sollen zentrale "Epochen" einer Literaturgeschichte des Koerpers rekonstruiert und unter jeweils geeigneten kulturwissenschaftlichen Parametern wie Historische Anthropologie, Gender-Forschung, Performativitaet und Medialitaet diskutiert werden. Da sich in der deutschen Germanistik mit dem Fokus auf Anthropologie und Wissenschaftsgeschichte eine andere Richtung der "Koerperforschung" etabliert hat als in den USA, wo der Schwerpunkt mehr auf Cultural und Gender Studies lag, koennen anhand des Seminarthemas auch die unterschiedliche Wissenskulturen der German Studies verglichen werden. -Professor BenthienTaught in German."Heinrich von Kleist: Dramatic Challenges to Truth" - Kleist's writings are an ideal guide to staging the literal meaning of language and to understanding the conceptual significance of verbal images. Identity formation, historical understanding, the lure of the abyss, the violence of stereotyping will be some of the topics to  ...read moreThis semester's German 204 compact seminar will be "Faust." Distinguished Professor Emeritus Wilhelm Vosskamp (University of Cologne) will teach the seminar for four weeks in September 2006.The seminar will inaugurate the Compact Seminar in German Studies funded by the Max Kade Foundation New York.One short paper is required. Note: This course only meets for one month, once a week, and on the following Fridays only: 9/15, 9/22, 9/29, 10/6, from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. in 282 Dwinelle Hall.The seminar is listed in the schedule of courses as CC# 37588: German 204 section 001: 2 Units "Faust."Max Kade Distinguished Visiting Professor Joseph Vogl (Humboldt Unvisersität, Berlin) will be teaching German 204 in Fall 2007 under the title of "Kafka und die Mächte der Moderne."Einen 'Experten für Machtfragen' hat Elias Canetti Kafka einmal genannt, und zweifellos lassen sich Kafkas Texte als Spielarten einer politischen Literatur lesen. Diese Lektüre jedenfalls soll im Seminar an ausgewählten und exemplarischen Texten versucht werden. Neben einigen geläufigen Themen der Kafka-Forschung – etwa der Frage nach der Rolle von ‘Gesetz’ und Urteilsmacht, nach der Disziplinierung des Körpers – geht es dabei auch um die Erschließung einer immanenten Programmatik und Theorie von Kafkas Literatur. Auf der Basis gründlicher Textkenntnis, die für das Seminar vorausgesetzt wird, sollen zentrale Problemstellungen des Themas im Seminargespräch erarbeitet werden.-Professor VoglClass will meet on the following Fridays only: 9/7, 9/14, 9/21, 9/28, 10/5, from 2:00-5:00 p.m., in Dwinelle 282.This semester's compact seminar will be taught by visiting professor Hans-Thies Lehmann (Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe University, Frankfurt a.M.). The topic is "Post-Dramatic Theater."This semester's compact seminar will be taught by Visiting Professor Gertrud Koch (FU Berlin). The topic is "Space and Time in Cinema”FAQShould I sign up during my Tele-BEARS appointment for all my language classes?
Yes, please, if at all possible. It would really help you to get the sections you want because some of them fill up fast. And you would help us determine where more sections are needed. So do yourself and us a favor and use your Tele-BEARS appointment!What happens if I missed Tele-BEARS and want to register at the last minute for a German course?
Just go to the section on the first day of classes and see if it's full. If it is, talk to the instructor about what options you might have. If you get into the class, remember that it's your responsibility to add the course through the registrar by the deadline.How do I find out where and when a language course is taught?
Well, you have three options: 1) you may check our fall, spring, or summer course pages, or go directly to the Online Schedule of Classes; 2) you may stop by the department (5th floor Dwinelle/level E) and check the listings posted outside of the office at Dwinelle 5311; or 3) call the department office at (510) 643-2004. You can also check the printed University Schedule of Classes, but be aware that there are occasionally last-minute location changes which are not reflected in the printed schedule, so options 1 and 2 are your best bet.What if I can't find the class where I thought it was going to meet?
Sorry! Sometimes room assignments have to be changed at the last minute. You can get the latest info on the class location by checking the Online Schedule of Classes website, by stopping by the department (5th floor of Dwinelle Hall) and checking the listings posted outside of the office at Dwinelle 5311, or by calling the department office at (510) 643-2004.Do I really have to go to every class during the first week?
Ja, du musst. (Yes, you must.) No exceptions. Otherwise you risk losing your spot in the class. And guess what? We expect you to go to every class during the semester unless you have a really good excuse.Where do I go to practice my German?
You may consider taking one of the upper division courses offered in German. You could also enroll in our conversation class, German 40. For extracurricular fun, go to the weekly Stammtisch or Kaffeeklatsch, which meet every week during the semester. Check our Events listings for more information.If my German final overlaps with another exam, what do I do?Each semester we schedule an alternate final date for our German 1, 2, and 3 sections to accommodate students with exam conflicts. Please talk to your instructor for more information.Can I retake German 4 because I forgot most of it?
You may only repeat German 4 for credit if you received a grade of D+, D, D-, F, NP, or U the first time. If you want to refresh your German, consider taking German 45: Intensive Grammar Review (3 units) and/or German 40: Conversation (2 units).Can I study in Germany and still be done in four years?
Go study abroad for a semester or a year! You can study almost any subject in Germany and make normal progress toward your major. All your credits are transferable, and you save money overall thanks to scholarships and the low housing cost there. Currently it costs about $2,000 to 4,000 LESS for the twelve-month program in Göttingen than for the nine-month academic year at Berkeley (and that includes airfare)! There is now even an Education Abroad Program in Germany which requires no previous knowledge of German at all. Check our Study Abroad section to explore your options.How can I use my BA in German?
If you don't want to attend graduate school, you can apply for jobs in international and global companies; you can work for a transatlantic organization, teach, do translations and much more. Have a look at the Career Center's web page about International Careers.Why does the German Department offer courses in English?
The German Department is more than a language department—we offer courses that provide a solid liberal arts major. Several courses on German philosophy, intellectual and cultural history, contemporary history, and film do not require knowledge of German. Although our major requires six upper-division courses taught in German, we also count four courses in English on German topics, offered either in our department or in affiliated departments. PLEASE CONSULT THE UNDERGRADUATE ADVISER ABOUT COURSES THAT COUNT TOWARD YOUR MAJOR.How large are classes in the German Department?
Our language classes have between twelve and twenty students each; our literature classes have about ten to fifteen students each, and our "big" courses are limited to no more than fifty students per course. And with the exception of language classes, all of our courses are taught by regular Berkeley faculty.No German is required for the following courses. Please note that not all courses are offered each semester. For courses taught, please see the university schedule of classes.Arts and LiteratureGerman: 25, 39A, 39B, 39C, 39D, 39E, 39F, 39H, 39I, 39L, 100, 101, 102A, 105, C109, 110, 111, 112, C113, 120, 121, 122, 123, 130, 132, 140, 141, 142, 143, 145, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 156, C159, 161, 162, 165, 168, 175B, 175C, 176, 180, 180B, 181, 182, 183, 185, 186, 187Dutch: 140, 150, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 177Historical StudiesGerman: 39E, 120, 123, 141, 150, 153, 154, 157A, 157C, 157D, C157B, 160A, 160B, 160C, 160K, 164, 170, 176, 177Dutch: 39A, C170, 173, 175, 177, C178International StudiesGerman: 3, 4, 50, 100, 101, 102A, 102B, 102C, 102D, 103, 150, 160D, 188Dutch: 110, 125, C170, 174Philosophy and ValuesGerman: C75, C113, 142, 143, 157A, 157C, 157D, C157B, C159, 162, 164, 176Social and Behavioral SciencesGerman: 25, 39F, 50, 102D, 103, 106, C109, 150, C159, 160A, 160B, 160C, 160D, 160K, 164, 171, 172, 173, 174, 177, 178, 180BDutch: 39A, C170, 173, 174, 175, C178, 179Course Descriptions - Fall 2017Language CoursesPlease note that all sections of German 1 through German 4 will still meet five hours per week, however at each level we are introducing sections that will meet three days per week, rather than five days per week.German 1 (5) Elementary German I. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. All four foreign language skills (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) are addressed to help students acquire communicative competence in the German language while being sensitized to the links between language and culture. German 1 is for students with no prior knowledge of German.German 2 (5) Elementary German II. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. In German 2, students will continue to develop communicative competence in the German language and expand their sensitivity toward the relationship between language and culture. While all language skills will be addressed, additional emphasis will be on the various styles of written and spoken German. Prerequisite: German 1 or equivalent.German 1G/2G (S/U) Reading German for Graduates. StaffFall/Spring. Taken on S/U basis. Prepares graduate students from other disciplines to take their German reading exams. One year of German should be taken before 1G; 1G or consent of instructor is required for 2G. Students who will take 2G should enroll in it at the beginning of the semester; 2G will begin in approximately the eighth week of instruction. All students interested in the G courses should attend the first meeting of the semester.German 3 (5) Intermediate German I. Topics in German Language and Cultural History. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. While continuing to expand students’ communicative competence in German, this content-driven course will provide insights into postwar German history and cultural trends. The primary focus will be on the development of literacy skills (critical reading and writing), vocabulary expansion, and a thorough review of structural concepts. Students will be guided toward expressing themselves on more abstract topics, such as language and power in society, multiculturalism, rebellion and protest, and social justice, and toward drawing connections between texts and contexts by using a variety of text genres (journalistic, historical, short story, poetry, drama, advertising, film).German 4 (5) Intermediate German II. Topics in German Language and Culture. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. In this fourth-semester German language course, students work on strengthening their interpretative abilities as well as their written and oral forms of expression. While continuing the development of communicative competence and literacy skills, students will discuss a variety of texts and films and try to find innovative ways in which to engage with familiar presuppositions about who we are, about what determines our values and actions, and about the function and power of language.Reading and Composition Courses
Readings and discussions in English. Fulfills the second half of the university’s Reading & Composition Requirement (equivalent to English 1B, Comp. Lit. 1B, etc.).German R5A. Reading and Composition (4)Section 1: Cho-Polizzi, J.
"Untranslatables".  A globalized and digital world has rendered many of the most far-flung places and outlandish ideas little more than a mouse-click away, but even the best efforts of online translation technologies still fail in their attempts to provide satisfactory equivalents for culturally-specific concepts or words. Drawing from a survey of literature, philosophy, and academic writings, this R5 seminar will examine 10 such “untranslatable” German words through a critical cultural-historical lens, asking what a wider context might contribute to our own preconceptions and assumptions in projects of cultural-linguistic exchange.Section 2: Salehi, K.
"Politics and the German Imagination."  In every period in Germany’s eventful and turbulent past century, German literature, films, philosophy, and other cultural production have all reflected the hopes, fears, and deepest convictions of a society steeped in political contradictions. Drawing on German literature, theory, cinema, and digital media, this R5A course invites students to engage critically with the pressing social and political issues of Imperial, Weimar, Nazi, East, West, and reunified (and ever more multicultural) Germany, all through the lens of art and philosophy. Students will have a chance to develop familiarity with how Germans have imagined the relationship between art and politics, the nature of historical change, and the role of government in people’s lives. Students will come out of the course having cultivated the research, vocabulary, and argumentation skills necessary to write convincing academic papers.Section 3: Shell, S.
The primary purpose of this course, which fulfills the second component of the Reading and Composition Requirement, is to help students develop college-level skills in critical reading and academic writing. We will conduct close reading and analysis of texts, and the writing of clear and persuasive arguments. Subsequently, we will write a series of essays in which will be dedicated to general topics in grammar, rhetoric, and style. The theme of the course aims to understand Germanic religion and mythology. We will use many major texts such as the Poetic Edda, the Prose Edda, the Hêliand, and Völsunga Saga/Das Niebelungenlied. In addition to this selection, we will also include fragments, e.g., laws against heathenry, place names, folklore surrounding the Germanic idea of a “soul”, that help to provide clues to the ancient Germanic religion(s) and myth(s). We will further explore these issues by researching the Christianization of the Germanic tribes and the degree of language contact within the migration period.  Section 4: Fragomeni, M.
In this course, we will consider the impact and influence of Rock & Roll music during the Cold War, with a special emphasis on its effects in East Germany and the USSR. We will investigate how various Rock & Roll genres challenged social conventions, as well as how they influenced the evolution of music itself. Concurrently, we will also cover the historical timeline in three units: Overview of the Cold War 1945 – 1991, Rock & Roll of the 50’s and 60’s, and then of the 70’s and 80’s.Section 5: Sacia, L.
TBACourses Taught in German:German 100 (3) Introduction to Reading Culture. Dewulf
This course is intended to acquaint students with selected works from German cultural history and to familiarize them with various methods of interpretation and analysis. Required for all German majors. Fulfills the Letters & Science requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 101 (3) Advanced German Conversation, Composition, and Style. Euba
Focusing on five central themes, this advanced-level language course will help students improve and expand on spoken and written language functions utilizing a variety of works from different genres in journalism, broadcasting, literature, fine arts, and cinema. The final goal is to enable students to participate in the academic discourse (written and spoken) to a linguistic and stylistic level appropriate for advanced students of German in upper division courses. Fulfills the Letters & Science breadth requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 102D (3) Advanced Language Practice: Popular Culture in Germany. Stirner
TBAGerman 103 (3) Introduction to German Linguistics. Shannon-CANCELLED!
NOTE: Undergraduates who still need or want to satisfy this course requirement in Fall 2017 can enroll in German 270 with Professor Rauch instead (please email Nadia Samadi with your student ID for manually enrollment).  German 270 will count as the German 103 requirement (Fall 2017 only).German 105 (3) Middle High German. Largier
The aim of the course is to help students develop proficiency in reading Middle High German texts. The course emphasizes translation, grammar, and close reading, though the cultural context of the literary documents and of the production of texts during the Middle Ages will be discussed as well. In addition to the courtly romance Iwein by Hartmann von Aue, students will read medieval poetry. The final list of readings and the way of proceeding will be determined in consultation with the class. The course is open to both undergraduate and graduate students.German 151 (3) 18th-21st Century Poetry. Kudszus
Focusing on prime examples from 18th-21st century poetry in German, we will explore linguistic creativity, dream realities, identity formations, and questions regarding translation. Texts in German, lectures, discussions and assignments in German and/or English.Courses Taught in English:German 112/ Comp. Lit. 153 (3) Early Modern Literature. Largier
"Martin Luther, the Bible, and the Reformation". According to the historical legend, Martin Luther posted 95 thesis about the reform of the Church on the doors of the castle church in Wittenberg, Germany, on October 31, 1517. These theses, published 500 years ago, were quickly reprinted, translated, and distributed throughout Germany and Europe. They are often seen as the starting point of the Reformation that not only changed the understanding of Christian teachings but also had a great influence on European culture and thought. In this course we read and discuss Luther's basic writings, the ways in which he teaches the reading of the Bible, and his influence on the history of modern thought and culture.  No knowledge of German required.German 160A (4) A Century of Extremes. Richter
This course will explore Germany’s political and cultural history from 1914 to the reunification of the two German states in 1990. This period was marked by the rise and fall of the first German democracy during the Weimar Republic, the First and the Second World War, the rise of extreme ideologies, the Cold War, and the fall of the Iron Curtain. Against the background of these developments we will focus on continuities and ruptures in German society during the Weimar Republic, National Socialism, the two Republics after 1949 (FRG and GDR), and the (unified) Federal Republic of Germany. By comparing the various dimensions and characteristics of Germany’s radical transformations this course introduces students to major political, social, and cultural changes, emphasizing questions of gender, class, religious identities and milieus; the impact of total war; and the roots of dictatorship and democracy. Course materials will include primary sources in translation and state-of-the-art scholarship on German history, self narratives, as well as contemporary literature, popular images, music and films.German 186/Film 160 (4) Narrative and Performance: Imposter Tales. Gokturk
In times of post-truth politics, this course focuses on imposter tales in literature and moving images, analyzing performances of social roles and national identities across multiple media and genres. Considering classic tales of “clothes make the man” from H. C. Andersen, F. Kafka, and T. Mann, cinematic productions such as To Be or Not To Be, Imitation of Life, and Catch Me If You Can, as well as acts of posing, passing, and exposing on TV, YouTube, and digital social media platforms, students learn to think critically about seductive qualities of narrative and performance with regard to rank and power, staging and acting, authenticity and artifice.
NOTE: This class includes "film screenings" on Wednesdays from 4pm-7pm in 142 Dwinelle Hall.Graduate CoursesGerman 201E (4)  "Slow Reading: Literary Styles of Literary Modernism".  Kaes
This seminar will focus on concentrated readings of selected passages from German modernist literature, ranging from Heinrich von Kleist, Robert Walser, Rainer Maria Rilke, Carl Einstein, and Franz Kafka to Thomas Mann, Robert Musil, Ingeborg Bachmann and Thomas Bernhard, among others. Although the emphasis will be on short prose texts, we will also occasionally analyze lyrical or philosophical texts. The seminar’s project is to acquire and practice deep reading skills that draw equally on aesthetics, philology, rhetoric, stylistics, literary theory and media history. We will also examine theories of prose (Hegel, Agamben, et al.) and discuss examples by masters of critical reading (Benjamin, Adorno, Gadamer, de Man, Derrida, et al.). Reading knowledge of German is required.204 (2) Compact Seminar. Gutjahr
NOTE: German 204 meets on the following 5 Fridays only: 09/1-09/29/2017.Aufklärungstheater: Lessings Dramen und Hamburgische DramaturgieGotthold Ephraim Lessings Schauspiel Nathan der Weise (1779) gilt als das deutschsprachige Drama der Aufklärung schlechthin. Und dies nicht nur, weil es bis heute das am häufigsten auf der Bühne inszenierte Stück der Epoche ist, sondern auch, weil es mit seinen szenischen Dialogen auf unmittelbare Weise zu aufklärerischem Denken anleitet. Durch die Argumentationsweisen des Titelprotagonisten und seine veranschaulichende Erzählung der Ringparabel gewinnt ein Humanitätsgedanke Gestalt, der auf der Handlungsebene in einer religionsübergreifenden Familienkonstellation seinen sinnfälligen Ausdruck findet. Lessing suchte damit nur wenige Jahre, bevor Immanuel Kant in seiner Abhandlung Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung? (1784) den »Ausgang des Menschen aus seiner selbstverschuldeten Unmündigkeit« zur epochalen Aufgabe erklärte, die Überwindung einer ›religiösen Unmündigkeit‹, die der unhinterfragten Übernahme dogmatischer Glaubensvorstellungen geschuldet ist, auf die Bühne zu bringen. Doch hat der an Erneuerung der Bühnenkunst interessierte Dramatiker bereits in seinen bürgerlichen Trauerspielen Miss Sara Sampson (1755) und Emilia Galotti (1772) wie auch in seinem Lustspiel Minna von Barnhelm (1767) Ansätze zu einem Aufklärungstheater entwickelt. Sein Ziel ist es, die Zuschauer auf bisher noch nie dagewesene Weise mit der dramatischen Handlung zu verbinden wie zugleich zur Kritikfähigkeit gegenüber dem Bühnengeschehen anzuleiten.So kündigt Lessing zur Eröffnung des neugegründeten, von Bürgern finanzierten »Nationaltheaters« in Hamburg am 22. April 1767 seine Hamburgische Dramaturgie an mit den Worten: »Diese Dramaturgie soll ein kritisches Register von allen aufzuführenden Stücken halten, und jeden Schritt begleiten, den die Kunst, sowohl des Dichters, als des Schauspielers, hier thun wird.« Das Vorhaben des eigens für das Nationaltheater eingestellten ›Dramaturgen‹ ist es, den Zuschauern anhand von Aufführungsbesprechungen Formen des europäischen Theaters zu erklären und Kriterien der Beurteilung von Stücken und Inszenierungen an die Hand zu geben. Als Ziel seiner kritischen Analysen gibt er die Verbesserung der ästhetischen Geschmacksbildung und Kritikfähigkeit des Publikums an. Denn er war der festen Überzeugung, dass erst die Kenntnis vieler Stücke aus unterschiedlichen Theaterkulturen zu einer begründeten Kritik von Aufführungen befähigt.In diesem Seminar werden wir Lessings Schauspiele, mit denen er als bedeutendster deutschsprachiger Dramatiker der Aufklärung in die Literaturgeschichte einging, vor dem Hintergrund seiner Ausführungen zur Funktion und Wirkungsästhetik des Dramas untersuchen. Dabei fragen wir, welche kosmopolitischen Vorstellungen Lessing mit seinem Vergleich von Theaterkulturen in der Hamburgischen Dramaturgie verbindet und ob sich daraus die Idee eines ›Welttheaters‹ ableiten lässt. Davon ausgehend analysieren wir seine bürgerlichen Trauerspiele Miß Sara Sampson und Emilia Galotti, das Lustspiel Minna von Barnhelm sowie das dramatische GedichtNathan der Weise im Hinblick auf die von Lessing selbst entwickelten Dramaturgien, die auf die Wirkung von Furcht und Mitleid wie auch auf Modelle aufgeklärter Rede ausgerichtet sind. Inwiefern heutige Inszenierungen von Lessings Stücken seine dramaturgischen Ansätze in postdramatische Formen übersetzen, erörtern wir ergänzend anhand von Videoaufzeichnungen neuer Inszenierungen an deutschsprachigen Theatern.Von allen Seminarteilnehmern sind als Reclam-Bändchen für die eingehende gemeinsame Lektüre anzuschaffen: Minna von Barnhelm und Nathan der Weise. Textausschnitte aus Miß Sara Sampson, Emilia Galotti und der Hamburgischen Dramaturgie sowie ausgewählte Sekundärliteratur wird zum Herunterladen bereitgestellt.German 207 (4) Methods. Feldman
This graduate seminar offers an introduction to methods of reading and writing about German literature. We will examine a variety of theoretical approaches including psychoanalysis, memory studies, trauma theory, feminist theory, queer theory, New Historicism, translation, and deconstruction; and with respect to drama, poetry and the novel. Formal analysis will be emphasized. We will also consider the field of German Studies, how it is related to Germanistik, and recent controversies around the centrality of literature in our field. Professionalization exercises are a central part of this course, and we will refine skills necessary for graduate-level research and writing.German 256 (4) Aesthetic Theory.  Tang
This research seminar is designed to help students gain an overview of the historical development and key concerns of aesthetic theory from its beginning in the late eighteenth century to the present day. The seminar will have three parts: 1. The emergence of philosophical aesthetics in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, with a focus on Kant and German idealism; 2, Aesthetics as a theory of modern society in the twentieth century, with readings ranging from Simmel and Adorno to Bourdieu and Rancière; 3. The rethinking of basic aesthetic categories under the contemporary scientific, technical, and social conditions. Aesthetic theory came into being at the height of humanism and revolves around the human subject. The seminar concludes by asking whether it is still possible and what form it could take under postman conditions.German 263A (4) Translation. Kudszus
In this seminar, we will think about and critically engage past and present practices and theories of translation. Following their particular interests in research & writing, participants will choose a text or a constellation of texts for their individual semester projects. Additionally, we will jointly work on translating a variety of texts throughout the semester.German 270 (4) History of the German Language. Rauch
Designed for graduate and undergraduate students interested in the external and internal history of the German language from prehistoric times to the present and its interchange with closely and remotely related languages. Genetic language processes informing the German language across time are illustrated through the interface with literary documents from ancient cattle raids through runic, Gothic, Medieval German, and English texts, as well as excerpts from Luther’s era, modern, and contemporary German. No prerequisites.German 294 (4) Contrastive Grammars.  Rauch
Theory and methods used in various types of contrastive linguistic analysis. Study of pairs of contrastive sets in two time perspectives: Modern German with Modern English, and their immediate predecessors, Early New High German with Early Modern English. No prerequisites.PedagogyGerman 375A (3) Seminar in Foreign Language Pedagogy: Teaching College German I. Euba
Focusing on the theory and practice of foreign language pedagogy, this course is designed to provide graduate students in German with knowledge and tools for their careers as teachers in the language classroom and beyond. While emphasizing critical reflection on pedagogical practices–-one’s own and that of others–-students will also be introduced to the field of Second Language Acquisition research and its relationship to pedagogy. This, along with the development of practices that promote continuing professional growth, should provide a basis for the ability to stay theoretically informed and to participate in the professional discourse of a rapidly developing field. Included in this course is a significant practical component addressing the day-to-day challenges of planning for and teaching the simultaneously offered elementary German language courses.DutchDutch 1 (5) Elementary Dutch. Van Der Hoeven
Dutch language course for beginners. The focus of the course is on acquiring basic communicative competence in the language. That is, developing the ability to appropriately use the language (spoken as well as written) in authentic situations.Dutch 110 (5) Advanced Dutch. Van Der Hoeven
The focus of this course is on reinforcing and expanding the patterns and vocabulary acquired in Dutch 2. All major grammar will be reviewed. Written and spoken proficiency will be improved.Dutch 171AC (4) From Amsterdam to New York. Dewulf
A different look at the early colonial history of the United States from the perspective of the 17th century Dutch colony on Manhattan. No knowledge of Dutch required. SATISFIES AMERICAN CULTURES REQUIREMENT.YiddishYiddish 101 (5) Elementary Yiddish. Luzon
Introduction to Yiddish language and literature. Attention to reading, writing, and speaking in the context of the historic Yiddish cultural environment.Yiddish 103 (5) Yiddish Literature. Chaver
Sholem Aleichem's Inner Child: Motl, the Cantor’s Son.  The last bittersweet masterpiece by the great Yiddish writer addresses challenges of change and modernity in the shtetl, in the fictional voice of a young boy who has just lost his father. With Motl, we experience traumas and joys, adventures and calamities, tradition and upheaval, culminating in the great shift out of the shtetl and into the New World. Sholem Aleichem’s rich style offers his unique take on the world of childhood in 19th-century Eastern European Jewish culture.For Absolute BeginnersIf you have no prior exposure to German, you should start in German 1 (5 units). No matter what your motives for taking the language might be, our communicative approach will quickly bring you up to a reasonable level of proficiency in all four foreign language skills (reading, writing, speaking, and listening), while exposing you to the links between language and culture, and to the world of great thinkers and writers such as Nietzsche, Freud, and Kafka. We hope that your experience in this course will motivate you to continue our language sequence in German 2, 3, and 4. (All courses can also be taken in an intensive workshop format in the summer on campus or in Germany.)For Not-So-Absolute BeginnersIf you have had two years or less of high school German or simply want to brush up on prior basic knowledge, you should enroll in German 1E (3 units, meets three times a week), specifically designed to meet your background. The same material as in German 1 will be covered in a condensed way and at an accelerated speed, so you qualify for subsequent enrollment in German 2. Again, we hope that your experience in this course will motivate you to continue our language sequence in German 2, 3, and 4. (All courses can also be taken in the summer in an intensive workshop format.)For Students of German in High Schools (or otherwise continuing learners)Congratulations! Now you can take advantage of your prior achievements and continue with your German at a higher level--it is possible that you are only a few courses away from fulfilling the language requirement for a minor, major, or double major! Please start by placing yourself according to the guidelines below and attending the recommended course at the beginning of the semester.You might also want to go to the university bookstore before classes start and look at the texts for the courses you're considering. This should give you some sense for the level. (In German 1, we cover through Chapter 6 of Kontakte; in German 2, we cover Chapters 7-12. In German 3, we cover chapters 1-6 of Stationen, and we finish chapters 7-12 in German 4).Since we have a vested interest in making your foreign language learning experience a successful one, you can always change the level of course that you're attending as long as you do so by the beginning of the second week of classes.These are just starting points. If you've attended a class and think you might be in the wrong place, consult with your instructor and, if necessary, with the Language Program Coordinator. If you feel that your prior experience with the German language goes beyond the scenarios outlined above (e.g., heritage learner, study-abroad participation, etc.) and are planning to take an upper-division course, you must contact the Language Program Coordinator for a personal placement advising appointment.To further advance your language skills, we also invite you to become a regular at the weekly Stammtisch or our weekly Kaffeeklatsch in the German Department library (Dwinelle 5337, on level E). You should also visit our website regularly and surf the net to exercise those "German muscles" in your brain. You can find anything from German news and pop music to interactive grammar exercises and e-mail partnerships.
Fast Track ScenariosWe pride ourselves on the quality and intensity of our dynamic and innovative German language program here at Berkeley. There are, of course, downsides that come with this approach to language learning--most notably time constraints and scheduling conflicts. We try to address these concerns as best we can and ask you to come to us for advice. Nikolaus Euba, the language program coordinator, is more than happy to meet with you.Here are multiple scenarios for a fast track into the upper-division German language and literature courses (on the 100 level):Scenario 1 (Fall Beginners) Scenario 2 (Spring Beginners) Scenario 3 (Summer Beginners) Language Certification for GermanIf you need proof of your German language skills (e.g., for scholarship applications, grants, or a graduate program), please contact the Language Program Coordinator to arrange for an evaluation. COURSE DESCRIPTIONS- SPRING 2018Language Courses:German 1 (5) Elementary German I. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet two or five times a week. All four foreign language skills (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) are addressed to help students acquire communicative competence in the German language while being sensitized to the links between language and culture. German 1 is for students with no prior knowledge of German.German 2 (5) Elementary German II. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet five times a week. In German 2, students will continue to develop communicative competence in the German language and expand their sensitivity toward the relationship between language and culture. While all language skills will be addressed, additional emphasis will be on the various styles of written and spoken German. Prerequisite: German 1 or equivalent.German 3 (5) Intermediate German I. Topics in German Language and Cultural History. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet five times a week. While continuing to expand students’ communicative competence in German, this content-driven course will provide insights into postwar German history and cultural trends. The primary focus will be on the development of literacy skills (critical reading and writing), vocabulary expansion, and a thorough review of structural concepts. Students will be guided toward expressing themselves on more abstract topics, such as language and power in society, multiculturalism, rebellion and protest, and social justice, and toward drawing connections between texts and contexts by using a variety of text genres (journalistic, historical, short story, poetry, drama, advertising, film).German 4 (5) Intermediate German II. Topics in German Language and Culture. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet five times a week. In this fourth-semester German language course, students work on strengthening their interpretative abilities as well as their written and oral forms of expression. While continuing the development of communicative competence and literacy skills, students will discuss a variety of texts and films and try to find innovative ways in which to engage with familiar presuppositions about who we are, about what determines our values and actions, and about the function and power of language.German R5B- Reading and Composition Courses (4 units):
Readings and discussions in English. Fulfills the second half of the university’s Reading & Composition Requirement (equivalent to English 1B, Comp. Lit. 1B, etc.).

German R5B Section 1: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 2: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 3: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 4: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 5: Staff
TBACourses Taught in German:German 100 (3) Introduction to Reading Culture. Dewulf
This course is intended to acquaint students with selected works from German cultural history and to familiarize them with various methods of interpretation and analysis. Required for all German majors. Fulfills the Letters & Science requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 101 (3) Advanced German Conversation, Composition, and Style. Staff
Focusing on five central themes, this advanced-level language course will help students improve and expand on spoken and written language functions utilizing a variety of works from different genres in journalism, broadcasting, literature, fine arts, and cinema. The final goal is to enable students to participate in the academic discourse (written and spoken) to a linguistic and stylistic level appropriate for advanced students of German in upper division courses. Fulfills the Letters & Science breadth requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 102A (3) Advanced Language Practice: German Performance. N. Euba
The analysis, discussion, adaptation and public performance of primarily poetic texts will advance students' language and interpersonal competencies while providing unique access to a significant dimension of German popular culture as well as innovative approaches to reading and interpreting poetry. Students enrolled need to be available for some  afternoon/evening performances April 18 through 21, 2018.German 103 (3) Introduction to German Linguistics. T. Shannon
This course is designed to provide students with an overview of the major subfields of linguistics as they apply to the German language. It also serves as the gateway course for the further study of German linguistics at the undergraduate level. The first part of the course will focus on the synchronic description of contemporary German. The second part of the course will concern itself with variation in German. There are no prerequisites for this class and no prior experience with linguistics is presupposed. However, an advanced knowledge of German (at least German 4 level) is expected.German 108 (3) Literary Translation. W. Kudszus
Our focus will be the practice and theory of literary translation, primarily from German to English. Following their particular interests, participants will choose a text or a constellation of texts for their individual semester projects. These projects will be introduced in an oral presentation (20-25 minutes) and develop into a semester paper, which typically will involve the translation of a text and reflections on your own translational stance.German 152 (3) Modern Literature. W. Kudszus
Some of the most influential and thought-provoking literary works of the wider 20th century will be among our readings, including texts by Friedrich Nietzsche, Sigmund Freud, Rainer Maria Rilke, Franz Kafka, Else Lasker-Schüler, Elfriede Jelinek, and Herta Müller. In light of these texts, we will explore questions of identity, madness, and creativity. Readings in German. Lectures in German and English. Discussions and course work in English and/or German.Courses Taught in English:German 24 (1) Freshman Seminar. K. Feldman
"Germany Today".  This FSS will introduce students to the country of Germany--its political system, social issues, and significant cultural elements. We will discuss political parties, the election system, Angela Merkel, Turkish-German and migration issues, arts and literature, and more. No knowledge of the German language is required for this course.German C25 (4)- Max, Nietzsche, Freud. K. Feldman
We will explore the ways in which Marx, Nietzsche, and Freud--three of the most important thinkers in modern Western thought--can be read as responding to the Enlightenment and its notions of reason and progress. We will consider how each remakes a scientific understanding of truth, knowledge, and subjectivity, such that rationality, logic, and the powers of human cognition are shown to be distorted, limited, and subject to forces outside our individual control. All lectures and readings in English.German 160B (4) Fascism and Propaganda. I. Richter
This course will explore methods, effects and the history of propaganda using the example of National Socialism (1933-1945) and will focus on the relationship between politics, propaganda and public opinion. It will highlight practices of persuasion and manipulation and attempts to shape perceptions, and direct behavior to achieve responses intended by the National Socialists. We will discuss the role that propaganda played in the National Socialists’ rise to power. Central institutions, organizational structures and actors will be introduced as well as practices and media such as films, newspapers, posters, exhibitions, photos, commemoration days and speeches. Besides the methods and intended effects, we will also explore sources which provide insights into reactions of the public to the major themes and into the reception of campaigns by the State.Graduate Courses:German 201D (4) 19th Century. C. Tang
This course studies the main literary forms and aesthetic paradigms between two epochal thresholds - “around 1800” and “around 1900”. We will read exemplary nineteenth-century texts in light of current scholarship. Authors include Novalis, Kleist, Goethe, Büchner, Heine, Grillparzer, Sacher-Masoch, Wagner, Stifter, Raabe, and Hofmannsthal.German 214 (4) Room Share with Critical Theory (TBA) Studies in the 20th Century. D. Gokturk
"Media, Ecology, Migration". This seminar will read theories of old and new media through the lens of two conceptual frameworks environmental criticism and migration studies. Tracing the effects of movement and stillness, interaction and connectivity from early cinema to social media and new forms of data visualizations, participants will develop their own research projects and methodologies by relating questions arising from theory to practice. Drawing on seminal literary and theoretical readings as well as film and multimedia examples, the seminar will test methodologies of critical digital humanities and urban studies, probing interfaces between social sciences and the humanities.  NOTE: This class also meets on Thursday from
1-3pm in 282 Dwinelle Hall for film screenings!German 256/Comp. Lit. 250 (4) Problems in Literary Theory. N. Largier
"Imagination, Fantasy, 'Einbildungskraft'". In this seminar we will discuss the significance of the notions and concepts of the imagination in philosophical and literary traditions. We will start with a discussion of basic texts by Plato and Aristotle; move on to the treatment of the imagination in classical rhetoric; and focus on four key areas where imagination, fantasy, and 'Einbildungskraft' play a significant role: the so-called mystical tradition up to Jacob Böhme; Baroque cultures of the imagination; poetic imagination in the 18th and 19th centuries; and 20th century philosophical approaches. The reading list will include texts by Plato, Aristotle, Quintilian, Ignatius of Loyola, Lohenstein, Böhme, Malebranche, Kant, Addison, Goethe, Moritz, Flaubert, Sartre, and Foucault.German 263C (4) Poetry and Thought. K. Feldman
This graduate seminar will investigate various disputes at the intersection of philosophy and literary theory that arose with respect to poetry and particular poems. We will begin with a short look at 18th-century disputes between Gottsched and Bodmer/Breitinger; and an examination of the convergence of philosophical and poetic thought in Hölderlin, Schelling and Hegel. Turning to the 20th century, we will look at an exchange between Heidegger, Emil Staiger and Leo Spitzer concerning Mörike's "Auf eine Lampe"; at serial analyses of later works of Hölderlin by Heidegger, Adorno and de Man.German 276 (4) Old High German. I. Rauch
Reading of poetic and prose texts in Old High German; passages selected to represent a broad scope of chronology, geography, and genre in eighth- to eleventh-century German. Cultural dynamics of the Old High German period. The synchronic and diachronic study of phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics; linguistic method. Particular emphasis is placed on the structure of the several principal dialects of Old High German. No prerequisites.German 280 (4) North Sea Germanic. T. Shannon
Readings and discussion of poetic and prose texts in the Ingwaeonic languages (broadly construed) not covered elsewhere: Old Low Franconian, Middle Dutch, Old Frisian, Middle Low German.Dutch Courses:Dutch 1 (5) Elementary Dutch. I. Van Der Hoeven
In this beginner’s course, students will familiarize themselves with the basics of Dutch: sounds and spelling, vocabulary, and grammar. Weekly themes form the basis of in-class conversations and write-ups. By the end of the semester, students will be able to express themselves in speaking and in writing about a variety of topics, including introducing yourself, time, living, studying, traveling, and talking about present and past situations.Dutch 2 (5) Elementary Dutch. I. Van Der Hoeven
Dutch language course for beginners expanding on Dutch 1. The focus of the course is on acquiring basic communicative competence in the language. That is, developing the ability to appropriately use the language (spoken as well as written) in authentic situations.Dutch 100 (3) Dutch for Reading and Translation Knowledge. I. Van Der Hoeven
This is a two-track course, designed for 1) research scholars/graduate students who need to learn how to translate Dutch texts in their area of expertise, and 2) Dutch Studies majors and minors who are interested in the professional field of translation (Dutch to English). While some knowledge of Dutch and/or German is required, a Dutch 1 class prior to this class is a prerequisite.Dutch C164  (4) The Indonesian Connection.  J. Dewulf
Literature and Film about the Dutch colonial history of Indonesia. Taught in English.Yiddish Courses:Yiddish 102 (5) Intermediate Yiddish. Y. Chaver
Further intensive study of Yiddish for advanced students, building on the foundation established in Yiddish 101; or equivalent knowledge.  Advanced grammar and introduction to reading original texts as well as aspects of Yiddish culture. Intensive German Courses in the Summer
Embark on an exciting summer journey: Learning German will open up astonishing new cultural vistas, enable you to communicate with 120 million people in several European countries, and expose you to the world of great thinkers such as Nietzsche, Kafka, and Freud. Among the multiple personal, academic, and professional benefits of a foreign language-learning experience is the fact that graduate and law schools in the US are keen on admitting students with advanced knowledge of a foreign language. UC Berkeley offers a variety of German courses and intensive workshops on the Berkeley campus and a workshop for beginners in Berlin. Summer Abroad in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg
"Introduce yourself to the cultural and political identity of the Low Countries: the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, three contrasting monarchies in the heart of Europe. The course begins in Amsterdam, the world’s most liberal city, from where we explore the Netherlands. After spending two weeks in the Netherlands, we travel to Europe’s capital Brussels, where we join the celebrations of Belgium’s Independence Day. From Brussels, we continue to Luxembourg, one of the smallest but most international countries in Europe. We then move to Flanders, Belgium’s Dutch-speaking region, where we first stay in the city of Ostend, beautifully located at the North Sea coast. We end our course in Louvain, one of Europe’s oldest university towns founded in the Middle Ages. On our way, we trace important cultural, historical and political developments in European history and culture from medieval Flanders, the Dutch Golden Age, World War I and II up to the contemporary multilingual, social and European identity of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg as founding members of the European Union. Daily fieldtrips take us to The Hague, Utrecht, Bruges, Antwerp, Ghent, Ypres, Bastogne, the Frisian Islands, Cassel in French Flanders and many other places. Guided visits to the Dutch House of Representatives and the European Parliament in Brussels are also included." For more information, please see Berkeley's study abroad website for the Netherlands.
Departmental Picnic, 2-5 pm at Codornices Park, 1201 Euclid Ave.The Education Abroad Program at UC Berkeley (UCEAP) offers students the opportunity to study abroad while keeping their financial aid and being able to automatically transfer their courses and grades back to Berkeley. Studying in Germany is one of the least expensive UCEAP programs in Western Europe, and students can apply for additional scholarships.Students can choose to study abroad for a full year, for just one semester (spring semester being the better option), or during the summer. This letter from German Study Abroad Program Adviser Scott McElhinney provides more information about UCEAP. Please also check the Berkeley Study Abroad website for all the details and an application checklist. Contact Scott McElhinney if you have further questions.Studying Abroad for a Semester or a Full YearIf you are interested in studying a full semester in Germany, consider the Berlin European Studies Program (BEST) at the Freie Universität Berlin. The program offers courses taught in English about Germany and the European Union, and no prior German is required (no competency higher than German 3 is allowed). Applications are due in early December for fall and early April for spring.Studying a semester or year abroad in Germany is also possible outside of the BEST program  at Freie Universität Berlin, as well as at Technische Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin. All fall and year-long immersion options have an early January application deadline. All spring options have an early April application deadline. For all of these immersion options, junior status (56 units including AP) and a GPA of 2.85 overall and in German language courses are required.Studying Abroad during the SummerThe UCEAP/FUBiS program at the Freie Universität International Summer University in Berlin allows students with any level of German (from none to advanced) to enroll in one or two language and subject matter courses. For more information, please see the FUBiS and UCEAP websites. This option is open to sophomores through graduate students with a GPA of 2.8. The application deadline is in early February.Students attending FUBiS individually or through UCEAP are eligible to apply for a Max Kade Travel Stipend of $1000 in support of their travel, made possible by generous support from the Max Kade Foundation. Applications are due to Nadia Samadi (Undergraduate Services) at the end of February each year. Please contact Nadia for the application form.Another summer study abroad option in Germany is UCEAP’s Engineering for Sustainability Program at the University of Applied Sciences in Munich. Students take project-based engineering courses that include lab experiments and simulations, and participants visit global companies headquartered in Munich. Courses are geared toward mechanical, automotive, electrical, industrial, and environmental engineering, as well as entrepreneurship and German language. Open to juniors and seniors, this option requires no prior German. Interested students should have a minimum 2.85 GPA. The application deadline is in early January.We welcome Nikolaus Euba, our new language program coordinator, who joins us this fall semester 2003.Course Descriptions - Fall 2017Language CoursesPlease note that all sections of German 1 through German 4 will still meet five hours per week, however at each level we are introducing sections that will meet three days per week, rather than five days per week.German 1 (5) Elementary German I. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. All four foreign language skills (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) are addressed to help students acquire communicative competence in the German language while being sensitized to the links between language and culture. German 1 is for students with no prior knowledge of German.German 2 (5) Elementary German II. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. In German 2, students will continue to develop communicative competence in the German language and expand their sensitivity toward the relationship between language and culture. While all language skills will be addressed, additional emphasis will be on the various styles of written and spoken German. Prerequisite: German 1 or equivalent.German 1G/2G (S/U) Reading German for Graduates. StaffFall/Spring. Taken on S/U basis. Prepares graduate students from other disciplines to take their German reading exams. One year of German should be taken before 1G; 1G or consent of instructor is required for 2G. Students who will take 2G should enroll in it at the beginning of the semester; 2G will begin in approximately the eighth week of instruction. All students interested in the G courses should attend the first meeting of the semester.German 3 (5) Intermediate German I. Topics in German Language and Cultural History. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. While continuing to expand students’ communicative competence in German, this content-driven course will provide insights into postwar German history and cultural trends. The primary focus will be on the development of literacy skills (critical reading and writing), vocabulary expansion, and a thorough review of structural concepts. Students will be guided toward expressing themselves on more abstract topics, such as language and power in society, multiculturalism, rebellion and protest, and social justice, and toward drawing connections between texts and contexts by using a variety of text genres (journalistic, historical, short story, poetry, drama, advertising, film).German 4 (5) Intermediate German II. Topics in German Language and Culture. Euba in charge.Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet three or five times a week. In this fourth-semester German language course, students work on strengthening their interpretative abilities as well as their written and oral forms of expression. While continuing the development of communicative competence and literacy skills, students will discuss a variety of texts and films and try to find innovative ways in which to engage with familiar presuppositions about who we are, about what determines our values and actions, and about the function and power of language.Reading and Composition Courses
Readings and discussions in English. Fulfills the second half of the university’s Reading & Composition Requirement (equivalent to English 1B, Comp. Lit. 1B, etc.).German R5A. Reading and Composition (4)Section 1: Cho-Polizzi, J.
"Untranslatables".  A globalized and digital world has rendered many of the most far-flung places and outlandish ideas little more than a mouse-click away, but even the best efforts of online translation technologies still fail in their attempts to provide satisfactory equivalents for culturally-specific concepts or words. Drawing from a survey of literature, philosophy, and academic writings, this R5 seminar will examine 10 such “untranslatable” German words through a critical cultural-historical lens, asking what a wider context might contribute to our own preconceptions and assumptions in projects of cultural-linguistic exchange.Section 2: Salehi, K.
"Politics and the German Imagination."  In every period in Germany’s eventful and turbulent past century, German literature, films, philosophy, and other cultural production have all reflected the hopes, fears, and deepest convictions of a society steeped in political contradictions. Drawing on German literature, theory, cinema, and digital media, this R5A course invites students to engage critically with the pressing social and political issues of Imperial, Weimar, Nazi, East, West, and reunified (and ever more multicultural) Germany, all through the lens of art and philosophy. Students will have a chance to develop familiarity with how Germans have imagined the relationship between art and politics, the nature of historical change, and the role of government in people’s lives. Students will come out of the course having cultivated the research, vocabulary, and argumentation skills necessary to write convincing academic papers.Section 3: Shell, S.
The primary purpose of this course, which fulfills the second component of the Reading and Composition Requirement, is to help students develop college-level skills in critical reading and academic writing. We will conduct close reading and analysis of texts, and the writing of clear and persuasive arguments. Subsequently, we will write a series of essays in which will be dedicated to general topics in grammar, rhetoric, and style. The theme of the course aims to understand Germanic religion and mythology. We will use many major texts such as the Poetic Edda, the Prose Edda, the Hêliand, and Völsunga Saga/Das Niebelungenlied. In addition to this selection, we will also include fragments, e.g., laws against heathenry, place names, folklore surrounding the Germanic idea of a “soul”, that help to provide clues to the ancient Germanic religion(s) and myth(s). We will further explore these issues by researching the Christianization of the Germanic tribes and the degree of language contact within the migration period.  Section 4: Fragomeni, M.
In this course, we will consider the impact and influence of Rock & Roll music during the Cold War, with a special emphasis on its effects in East Germany and the USSR. We will investigate how various Rock & Roll genres challenged social conventions, as well as how they influenced the evolution of music itself. Concurrently, we will also cover the historical timeline in three units: Overview of the Cold War 1945 – 1991, Rock & Roll of the 50’s and 60’s, and then of the 70’s and 80’s.Section 5: Sacia, L.
TBACourses Taught in German:German 100 (3) Introduction to Reading Culture. Dewulf
This course is intended to acquaint students with selected works from German cultural history and to familiarize them with various methods of interpretation and analysis. Required for all German majors. Fulfills the Letters & Science requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 101 (3) Advanced German Conversation, Composition, and Style. Euba
Focusing on five central themes, this advanced-level language course will help students improve and expand on spoken and written language functions utilizing a variety of works from different genres in journalism, broadcasting, literature, fine arts, and cinema. The final goal is to enable students to participate in the academic discourse (written and spoken) to a linguistic and stylistic level appropriate for advanced students of German in upper division courses. Fulfills the Letters & Science breadth requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 102D (3) Advanced Language Practice: Popular Culture in Germany. Stirner
TBAGerman 103 (3) Introduction to German Linguistics. Shannon-CANCELLED!
NOTE: Undergraduates who still need or want to satisfy this course requirement in Fall 2017 can enroll in German 270 with Professor Rauch instead (please email Nadia Samadi with your student ID for manually enrollment).  German 270 will count as the German 103 requirement (Fall 2017 only).German 105 (3) Middle High German. Largier
The aim of the course is to help students develop proficiency in reading Middle High German texts. The course emphasizes translation, grammar, and close reading, though the cultural context of the literary documents and of the production of texts during the Middle Ages will be discussed as well. In addition to the courtly romance Iwein by Hartmann von Aue, students will read medieval poetry. The final list of readings and the way of proceeding will be determined in consultation with the class. The course is open to both undergraduate and graduate students.German 151 (3) 18th-21st Century Poetry. Kudszus
Focusing on prime examples from 18th-21st century poetry in German, we will explore linguistic creativity, dream realities, identity formations, and questions regarding translation. Texts in German, lectures, discussions and assignments in German and/or English.Courses Taught in English:German 112/ Comp. Lit. 153 (3) Early Modern Literature. Largier
"Martin Luther, the Bible, and the Reformation". According to the historical legend, Martin Luther posted 95 thesis about the reform of the Church on the doors of the castle church in Wittenberg, Germany, on October 31, 1517. These theses, published 500 years ago, were quickly reprinted, translated, and distributed throughout Germany and Europe. They are often seen as the starting point of the Reformation that not only changed the understanding of Christian teachings but also had a great influence on European culture and thought. In this course we read and discuss Luther's basic writings, the ways in which he teaches the reading of the Bible, and his influence on the history of modern thought and culture.  No knowledge of German required.German 160A (4) A Century of Extremes. Richter
This course will explore Germany’s political and cultural history from 1914 to the reunification of the two German states in 1990. This period was marked by the rise and fall of the first German democracy during the Weimar Republic, the First and the Second World War, the rise of extreme ideologies, the Cold War, and the fall of the Iron Curtain. Against the background of these developments we will focus on continuities and ruptures in German society during the Weimar Republic, National Socialism, the two Republics after 1949 (FRG and GDR), and the (unified) Federal Republic of Germany. By comparing the various dimensions and characteristics of Germany’s radical transformations this course introduces students to major political, social, and cultural changes, emphasizing questions of gender, class, religious identities and milieus; the impact of total war; and the roots of dictatorship and democracy. Course materials will include primary sources in translation and state-of-the-art scholarship on German history, self narratives, as well as contemporary literature, popular images, music and films.German 186/Film 160 (4) Narrative and Performance: Imposter Tales. Gokturk
In times of post-truth politics, this course focuses on imposter tales in literature and moving images, analyzing performances of social roles and national identities across multiple media and genres. Considering classic tales of “clothes make the man” from H. C. Andersen, F. Kafka, and T. Mann, cinematic productions such as To Be or Not To Be, Imitation of Life, and Catch Me If You Can, as well as acts of posing, passing, and exposing on TV, YouTube, and digital social media platforms, students learn to think critically about seductive qualities of narrative and performance with regard to rank and power, staging and acting, authenticity and artifice.
NOTE: This class includes "film screenings" on Wednesdays from 4pm-7pm in 142 Dwinelle Hall.Graduate CoursesGerman 201E (4)  "Slow Reading: Literary Styles of Literary Modernism".  Kaes
This seminar will focus on concentrated readings of selected passages from German modernist literature, ranging from Heinrich von Kleist, Robert Walser, Rainer Maria Rilke, Carl Einstein, and Franz Kafka to Thomas Mann, Robert Musil, Ingeborg Bachmann and Thomas Bernhard, among others. Although the emphasis will be on short prose texts, we will also occasionally analyze lyrical or philosophical texts. The seminar’s project is to acquire and practice deep reading skills that draw equally on aesthetics, philology, rhetoric, stylistics, literary theory and media history. We will also examine theories of prose (Hegel, Agamben, et al.) and discuss examples by masters of critical reading (Benjamin, Adorno, Gadamer, de Man, Derrida, et al.). Reading knowledge of German is required.204 (2) Compact Seminar. Gutjahr
NOTE: German 204 meets on the following 5 Fridays only: 09/1-09/29/2017.Aufklärungstheater: Lessings Dramen und Hamburgische DramaturgieGotthold Ephraim Lessings Schauspiel Nathan der Weise (1779) gilt als das deutschsprachige Drama der Aufklärung schlechthin. Und dies nicht nur, weil es bis heute das am häufigsten auf der Bühne inszenierte Stück der Epoche ist, sondern auch, weil es mit seinen szenischen Dialogen auf unmittelbare Weise zu aufklärerischem Denken anleitet. Durch die Argumentationsweisen des Titelprotagonisten und seine veranschaulichende Erzählung der Ringparabel gewinnt ein Humanitätsgedanke Gestalt, der auf der Handlungsebene in einer religionsübergreifenden Familienkonstellation seinen sinnfälligen Ausdruck findet. Lessing suchte damit nur wenige Jahre, bevor Immanuel Kant in seiner Abhandlung Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung? (1784) den »Ausgang des Menschen aus seiner selbstverschuldeten Unmündigkeit« zur epochalen Aufgabe erklärte, die Überwindung einer ›religiösen Unmündigkeit‹, die der unhinterfragten Übernahme dogmatischer Glaubensvorstellungen geschuldet ist, auf die Bühne zu bringen. Doch hat der an Erneuerung der Bühnenkunst interessierte Dramatiker bereits in seinen bürgerlichen Trauerspielen Miss Sara Sampson (1755) und Emilia Galotti (1772) wie auch in seinem Lustspiel Minna von Barnhelm (1767) Ansätze zu einem Aufklärungstheater entwickelt. Sein Ziel ist es, die Zuschauer auf bisher noch nie dagewesene Weise mit der dramatischen Handlung zu verbinden wie zugleich zur Kritikfähigkeit gegenüber dem Bühnengeschehen anzuleiten.So kündigt Lessing zur Eröffnung des neugegründeten, von Bürgern finanzierten »Nationaltheaters« in Hamburg am 22. April 1767 seine Hamburgische Dramaturgie an mit den Worten: »Diese Dramaturgie soll ein kritisches Register von allen aufzuführenden Stücken halten, und jeden Schritt begleiten, den die Kunst, sowohl des Dichters, als des Schauspielers, hier thun wird.« Das Vorhaben des eigens für das Nationaltheater eingestellten ›Dramaturgen‹ ist es, den Zuschauern anhand von Aufführungsbesprechungen Formen des europäischen Theaters zu erklären und Kriterien der Beurteilung von Stücken und Inszenierungen an die Hand zu geben. Als Ziel seiner kritischen Analysen gibt er die Verbesserung der ästhetischen Geschmacksbildung und Kritikfähigkeit des Publikums an. Denn er war der festen Überzeugung, dass erst die Kenntnis vieler Stücke aus unterschiedlichen Theaterkulturen zu einer begründeten Kritik von Aufführungen befähigt.In diesem Seminar werden wir Lessings Schauspiele, mit denen er als bedeutendster deutschsprachiger Dramatiker der Aufklärung in die Literaturgeschichte einging, vor dem Hintergrund seiner Ausführungen zur Funktion und Wirkungsästhetik des Dramas untersuchen. Dabei fragen wir, welche kosmopolitischen Vorstellungen Lessing mit seinem Vergleich von Theaterkulturen in der Hamburgischen Dramaturgie verbindet und ob sich daraus die Idee eines ›Welttheaters‹ ableiten lässt. Davon ausgehend analysieren wir seine bürgerlichen Trauerspiele Miß Sara Sampson und Emilia Galotti, das Lustspiel Minna von Barnhelm sowie das dramatische GedichtNathan der Weise im Hinblick auf die von Lessing selbst entwickelten Dramaturgien, die auf die Wirkung von Furcht und Mitleid wie auch auf Modelle aufgeklärter Rede ausgerichtet sind. Inwiefern heutige Inszenierungen von Lessings Stücken seine dramaturgischen Ansätze in postdramatische Formen übersetzen, erörtern wir ergänzend anhand von Videoaufzeichnungen neuer Inszenierungen an deutschsprachigen Theatern.Von allen Seminarteilnehmern sind als Reclam-Bändchen für die eingehende gemeinsame Lektüre anzuschaffen: Minna von Barnhelm und Nathan der Weise. Textausschnitte aus Miß Sara Sampson, Emilia Galotti und der Hamburgischen Dramaturgie sowie ausgewählte Sekundärliteratur wird zum Herunterladen bereitgestellt.German 207 (4) Methods. Feldman
This graduate seminar offers an introduction to methods of reading and writing about German literature. We will examine a variety of theoretical approaches including psychoanalysis, memory studies, trauma theory, feminist theory, queer theory, New Historicism, translation, and deconstruction; and with respect to drama, poetry and the novel. Formal analysis will be emphasized. We will also consider the field of German Studies, how it is related to Germanistik, and recent controversies around the centrality of literature in our field. Professionalization exercises are a central part of this course, and we will refine skills necessary for graduate-level research and writing.German 256 (4) Aesthetic Theory.  Tang
This research seminar is designed to help students gain an overview of the historical development and key concerns of aesthetic theory from its beginning in the late eighteenth century to the present day. The seminar will have three parts: 1. The emergence of philosophical aesthetics in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, with a focus on Kant and German idealism; 2, Aesthetics as a theory of modern society in the twentieth century, with readings ranging from Simmel and Adorno to Bourdieu and Rancière; 3. The rethinking of basic aesthetic categories under the contemporary scientific, technical, and social conditions. Aesthetic theory came into being at the height of humanism and revolves around the human subject. The seminar concludes by asking whether it is still possible and what form it could take under postman conditions.German 263A (4) Translation. Kudszus
In this seminar, we will think about and critically engage past and present practices and theories of translation. Following their particular interests in research & writing, participants will choose a text or a constellation of texts for their individual semester projects. Additionally, we will jointly work on translating a variety of texts throughout the semester.German 270 (4) History of the German Language. Rauch
Designed for graduate and undergraduate students interested in the external and internal history of the German language from prehistoric times to the present and its interchange with closely and remotely related languages. Genetic language processes informing the German language across time are illustrated through the interface with literary documents from ancient cattle raids through runic, Gothic, Medieval German, and English texts, as well as excerpts from Luther’s era, modern, and contemporary German. No prerequisites.German 294 (4) Contrastive Grammars.  Rauch
Theory and methods used in various types of contrastive linguistic analysis. Study of pairs of contrastive sets in two time perspectives: Modern German with Modern English, and their immediate predecessors, Early New High German with Early Modern English. No prerequisites.PedagogyGerman 375A (3) Seminar in Foreign Language Pedagogy: Teaching College German I. Euba
Focusing on the theory and practice of foreign language pedagogy, this course is designed to provide graduate students in German with knowledge and tools for their careers as teachers in the language classroom and beyond. While emphasizing critical reflection on pedagogical practices–-one’s own and that of others–-students will also be introduced to the field of Second Language Acquisition research and its relationship to pedagogy. This, along with the development of practices that promote continuing professional growth, should provide a basis for the ability to stay theoretically informed and to participate in the professional discourse of a rapidly developing field. Included in this course is a significant practical component addressing the day-to-day challenges of planning for and teaching the simultaneously offered elementary German language courses.DutchDutch 1 (5) Elementary Dutch. Van Der Hoeven
Dutch language course for beginners. The focus of the course is on acquiring basic communicative competence in the language. That is, developing the ability to appropriately use the language (spoken as well as written) in authentic situations.Dutch 110 (5) Advanced Dutch. Van Der Hoeven
The focus of this course is on reinforcing and expanding the patterns and vocabulary acquired in Dutch 2. All major grammar will be reviewed. Written and spoken proficiency will be improved.Dutch 171AC (4) From Amsterdam to New York. Dewulf
A different look at the early colonial history of the United States from the perspective of the 17th century Dutch colony on Manhattan. No knowledge of Dutch required. SATISFIES AMERICAN CULTURES REQUIREMENT.YiddishYiddish 101 (5) Elementary Yiddish. Luzon
Introduction to Yiddish language and literature. Attention to reading, writing, and speaking in the context of the historic Yiddish cultural environment.Yiddish 103 (5) Yiddish Literature. Chaver
Sholem Aleichem's Inner Child: Motl, the Cantor’s Son.  The last bittersweet masterpiece by the great Yiddish writer addresses challenges of change and modernity in the shtetl, in the fictional voice of a young boy who has just lost his father. With Motl, we experience traumas and joys, adventures and calamities, tradition and upheaval, culminating in the great shift out of the shtetl and into the New World. Sholem Aleichem’s rich style offers his unique take on the world of childhood in 19th-century Eastern European Jewish culture.The German Department offers a variety of courses that require no knowledge of the German language. If you do not know the language and are interested in learning more about German literature and culture, history and philosophy, or social sciences and international issues, please choose from the classes listed below. (Please note that not all courses are offered each semester; check the Schedule of Classes for details).Please search the Berkeley Academic Guide for German courses that fulfill breadth requirements.Please consult our departmental course listings and the university's Schedule of Classes or CalCentral for further information. Also check listings in Dutch and Yiddish for information about related breadth requirement courses.The German Department will host an Open House for the following participating high schools: Berkeley High, Castro Valley HS and Foothill HS. To make a secure credit card gift to the Department of German, click here!Your support allows the Department of German to assist graduate and undergraduate students. We gladly acknowledge your gift and will let you know how we spent it. You are welcome to specify how your contribution will be used. Some of our most urgent needs are study and travel stipends for our German majors; travel subsidies for our doctoral students who want to give papers at conferences; summer study grants for undergraduate and graduate students; and gifts to upgrade our departmental library and facilities.If you would like to give a graduate student fellowship in your name or any other major award (for instance, a prize in your name for best essay or for excellence in teaching German language), please contact the Chair of the Department, Professor Deniz Göktürk either by email, phone (510.642.7445), fax (510.642.3243), or letter (c/o Department of German, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720).If you prefer to support the German Department with an unrestricted gift, please see Giving to the department. If you would like to make a gift by check, please make it payable to "UC Berkeley Foundation, German Department" and mail it to UC Berkeley Foundation, Gift Processing, File #31932, PO Box 60000, San Francisco, CA 94160, to have it acknowledged for tax purposes.If you want more information about other types of gifts, please consult Give to Cal. For further questions, please call the Office of College Relations at (510) 643-1964.Your support is greatly appreciated.Kurt Beals was the translator of Anja Utler’s poetry book “engulf – enkindle” (Burning Deck 2010). It will appear December 15, 2010 (website). An excerpt also appeared in the magazine Two Lines.Melissa Etzler was the recipient of the first Bernhard-Zeller-Stipendium, Deutsches Literaturarchiv, Marbach to work on a dissertation on W. G. Sebald.Ashwin Manthripragada was the recipient of a FLAS/AIIS Fellowship for India to study advanced Sanskrit in connection with his dissertation work.Tara Hottman received the IES Summer Fellowship.Peter Woods has been awarded a Fulbright Grant to Austria for 2012-13 to carry out fieldwork on his dissertation research on “Slovene Bilingualism and German Language Contact.”He gathered data for the Slovene part of his study through a FLAS Award to Slovenia during2011-2012.Mason Allred published “Pumping up Masculinity: The Initial Intervention and Lasting Legacy of Hans and Franz” in The Journal of Popular Culture.Seth Elliott Meyer received a Fulbright Fellowship to conduct dissertation research in Berlin for the 2013-14 academic year.Gabriel Trop published “The Persistence of the Fragile World: Poetic Cognition in Hölderlin’s Poetological Writing and ‘Der Rhein’,” Interdisciplinary Journal for Germanic Linguistics and Semiotic Analysis vol.14, 1 (2009).Eric Savoth received a dissertation fellowship from the Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies at the Freie Universität Berlin. His research will focus on the role of rationalization in literature and science around 1900 in Germany.Paul Dobryden was awarded a Center for German and European Studies/IES pre-dissertation fellowship.Yael Almog received a fellowship for 2013-14 from the Leo Baeck Fellowshipprogram to work on her dissertation.Kurt Beals, working on “Poetic Economies: Experimental Literature and Commercial Culture,” receives a Mellon/ACLS Dissertation Completion Fellowship.Ashwin Manthripragada, Emina Musanovic and Dagmar Theison published as editors the book, “The Threat and Allure of the Magical” (Cambridge Scholars, March 2013).Robin Ellis, Kristin Dickinson and Priscilla Layne translated the plays “Schwarze Jungfrauen” (by Feridun Zaimoglu), “Klassentreffen” and “Ferienlager” (by the akademie der autodidakten lab I) for the Ballhaus Naunynstraße in Berlin.The Graduate Symposium on German Medieval Studies will be convened this year at Stanford (May 4) and Berkeley (May 5).Stanford - Wallenberg Hall, Room 433A10:00 am. Welcome (Coffee and light refreshments)10:15 am. Session 1
Moderated by Kathrin Gollwitzer, BerkeleyWalker Horsfall, Toronto. “Mirrors and Mock Jousts: Metaphor as Ritual in Frauenlob”
Mareike Reisch, Stanford. “sinne und vernunft:  Die bildliche Darstellung eines mittelalterlichen  Modells von Sinneswahrnehmung im  Konstanzer Haus zur Kunkel“
Daniela Fuhrmann and Pia Selmayr, Zurich. “Narrated Orders - Orders of Narration”12:30 pm. Lunch1:30 pm. Session 2
Moderated by Landon Reitz, BerkeleyHans Pech, Harvard. “Vision and Imagination in Henry Suso´s Mysticism”
Chris Hutchinson, Stanford. “Syphilis and its Cure: Ulrich von Hutten and Medi(c)al Communication”3:00 pm. Break3:45 pm. Session 3
Barchas Room, Stanford Special Collections
Moderated by Robert Forke, StanfordBjörn Buschbeck, Stanford. Manuscript Analysis
Aleksandra Prica, Chapel Hill. Discussion of Primary Text: Basler Trojanerkrieg---5/5 Moses Hall 20110:30 am. Session 5
Moderated by Oriana Schällibaum, ZurichJon Martin, Princeton. “Are Marke and Isalde Married? An Examination of Legal Ritual in Eilhart's Tristrant”
Thomas Müller, Zurich. “Performative Sanctification in Late Medieval Hagiography”12:00 pm. Lunch1:00 pm. Session 6
Moderated by Patric Di Dio Di Marco, StanfordHannah Hunter-Parker, Princeton. “Lost Manuscripts: Classics from the German Homer to the Heldenbuch”
Jake Wakelin, Toronto. “The Kaiserchronik in Perspective: German Vernacular Historiography in a Twelfth-Century Context”2:30 pm. Break3:00 pm. Session 7
Moderated by Jenny Strakovsky, StanfordMae Lyons-Penner, Stanford. “The Global Medieval Sourcebook”
Christopher Hench, Berkeley. “Phonological Soundscapes and the Lyrical ‘I’”  ...read more370 Dwinelle Hall, UC Berkeley 
Wednesday, October 7, 2015A graduate workshop to complement the international conference Revisiting Freud and Moses: Heroism, History and Religion. That conference aims to explore Freud's place in current debates on secularism and post-secularism, featuring new research on the intersections of theology, Judaism and history in  ...read moreOur distinguished graduate program in German is both comprehensive and innovative, dedicated to German literature and linguistics, language and culture, but also to media, film, intellectual history, and theoretical approaches that reach beyond disciplinary boundaries.We offer a broad range of research seminars that reflect the interests of our diverse faculty and most recent developments in the field. The topics of our courses range from Medieval literature to 21st century literature; from the literature of migration to studies in media and film; from Old Saxon and Gothic to modern German dialects; from bilingualism to the study of language and power; covering also relations among literature, law, space, philosophy, and religion.Our curriculum offers a great range of flexibility. We are highly committed to working closely with our students to help them design the course of study that is most appropriate to their interests. Students can also qualify for one of many Designated Emphasis programs.In addition, we encourage our students to spend at least a year at a university in German-speaking Europe. Our department maintains an extensive network of international collaboration with the most innovative departments in the field at universities in German-speaking countries, notably with the Humboldt Universität and the Freie Universität in Berlin, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Universität Zürich, Universität Wien, and Universität Konstanz. We regularly host a considerable number of doctoral and postdoctoral students, as well as visiting faculty from these institutions, and they actively participate in our research seminars and colloquia.Thus students develop their own networks with German colleagues early on during their careers. Nearly all of our students participate in exchanges with these universities and spend a year or two at host institutions in Germany, and most of them do so with the support of outside fellowships. Our students have been highly successful at securing such funding.Students further support themselves in their studies by teaching lower-division German language courses. They can also apply to teach courses in Reading and Composition (offered in English on German topics). Our students prepare to teach with our language pedagogy program; they may also attend seminars about teaching Reading and Composition.As part of their training, students are encouraged to participate in conferences and other professional activities, both on and off campus. The department offers several working groups, and students plan and put together the department’s annual interdisciplinary German Studies Conference. Based on their training in the department and their experience within our extensive international networks, our graduate students enter their careers with outstanding skills and a range of professional contacts in the US and in Germany. An excellent record of external grants and of job placement testifies to our students’ success.ContactsChenxi Tang (Graduate Adviser in the Literature and Culture Specialization)
Thomas Shannon (Graduate Adviser in the Germanic Linguistics Specialization).
Andrea Rapport (Graduate Adviser)Winfried Kudszus will deliver the keynote lecture at the Metamind Symposium “Modelling of Time and Space”, which will take place at the International Semiotics Institute in Imatra, Finland, in June 2012.In the summer of 2012, he will teach the compact graduate seminar “Critical Concepts of Text and Culture” at the Latvian Academy of Culture, Riga.Lindsay Preseau will be in Berlin next year through a fellowship with the Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies working on her project "Kiezdeutsch and 'Kiezenglisch': Dialect Transfer in Multilingual Germany".  ...read morePaul Dobryden has accepted a position as Assistant Professor at the University of Virginia, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures. Congratulations, Paul!Jason Witt (Berkeley PhD 2008, University of Manchester) published his dissertation “Evidentiality and Perception Verbs in English and German” (Bern: Peter Lang) 2009.The Department of German offers language and literature classes in German, Dutch, and Yiddish, as well as breadth requirement courses (taught in English) on German philosophy, linguistics, political culture, and cinema. The department's degree options include a major, minor, double major, or PhD in German. Our renowned PhD program is affiliated with Comparative Literature, Film & Media, Medieval Studies, and Critical Theory.Our distinguished graduate program in German is both comprehensive and innovative, dedicated to German literature and linguistics, language and culture, but also to media, film, intellectual history, and theoretical approaches that reach beyond disciplinary boundaries.We offer a broad range of research seminars that reflect the interests of our diverse faculty and most recent developments in the field. The topics of our courses range from Medieval literature to 21st century literature; from the literature of migration to studies in media and film; from Old Saxon and Gothic to modern German dialects; from bilingualism to the study of language and power; covering also relations among literature, law, space, philosophy, and religion.Our curriculum offers a great range of flexibility. We are highly committed to working closely with our students to help them design the course of study that is most appropriate to their interests. Students can also qualify for one of many Designated Emphasis programs.In addition, we encourage our students to spend at least a year at a university in German-speaking Europe. Our department maintains an extensive network of international collaboration with the most innovative departments in the field at universities in German-speaking countries, notably with the Humboldt Universität and the Freie Universität in Berlin, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Universität Zürich, Universität Wien, and Universität Konstanz. We regularly host a considerable number of doctoral and postdoctoral students, as well as visiting faculty from these institutions, and they actively participate in our research seminars and colloquia.Thus students develop their own networks with German colleagues early on during their careers. Nearly all of our students participate in exchanges with these universities and spend a year or two at host institutions in Germany, and most of them do so with the support of outside fellowships. Our students have been highly successful at securing such funding.Students further support themselves in their studies by teaching lower-division German language courses. They can also apply to teach courses in Reading and Composition (offered in English on German topics). Our students prepare to teach with our language pedagogy program; they may also attend seminars about teaching Reading and Composition.As part of their training, students are encouraged to participate in conferences and other professional activities, both on and off campus. The department offers several working groups, and students plan and put together the department’s annual interdisciplinary German Studies Conference. Based on their training in the department and their experience within our extensive international networks, our graduate students enter their careers with outstanding skills and a range of professional contacts in the US and in Germany. An excellent record of external grants and of job placement testifies to our students’ success.ContactsChenxi Tang (Graduate Adviser in the Literature and Culture Specialization)
Thomas Shannon (Graduate Adviser in the Germanic Linguistics Specialization).
Andrea Rapport (Graduate Adviser)The Department of German accepts applications for its graduate degree program* beginning in September for admission the following fall semester. Applications must be submitted online no later than December 15.Admissions Procedure and CriteriaCriteria for the selection of applicants for graduate study* in German Literature and Culture or Germanic Linguistics include the following:The assessment of the applicant’s potential is based on the materials included in the Graduate Application, primarily on the statement of purpose (which should focus on potential contributions to the field), past record, and recommendations. A writing sample in English or in German that shows the applicant’s thought process and argument style is also required.Please consult the Graduate Application Checklist for a list of required components. Application questions may be sent to the graduate adviser.The departmental Graduate Admissions and Support Committee examines and evaluates within the first two weeks of each spring semester all completed applications that have been received by the department. The committee then makes its recommendations for admission to the Graduate Division in early February.It also recommends awards of Graduate Student Instructorships (GSIs) and fellowships at this time. All applicants who have been recommended for admission and support will hear from the department by the end of February.* Please note that the department does not admit for the MA as a final degree, although the MA will be awarded to students pursuing work toward the PhD after fulfillment of the MA requirements. Applicants who hold an MA in German may apply directly to the PhD program.Reactivation of a Previous ApplicationIf you have applied within the last two years, you may reactivate your application by submitting form A of the current graduate application. The department recommends that you submit a new statement of purpose (Form F) and writing sample, an additional letter of recommendation, and transcripts of all coursework undertaken since you last applied.The Department of German is committed to supporting all of its students. Our graduate students usually enter the program with a fellowship and further support themselves in their studies by teaching courses within the department. A fair number of fellowships are awarded to outstanding students not only at the incoming level, but also at continuing and dissertation levels. Students are encouraged to apply for extra-departmental funding throughout their graduate careers. The Graduate Division provides an excellent listing of further funding opportunities.All students applying for university fellowships or financial aid are required to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Graduate students may apply for need-based loans and work study through the Graduate Financial Aid Office. Under federal guidelines, all graduate students are considered independent. In order to receive aid, students must also be enrolled and be making satisfactory academic progress toward their degrees.Grants and FellowshipsEach year the department is given a block grant from the Graduate Division to award fellowships to its students. Such grants may take the form of fee offset grants, tuition grants, stipends, or a combination of any or all. Students must complete the fellowship section in the Graduate Application to be considered for financial aid upon admission.Multi-year university-sponsored fellowships are awarded through an annual campus-wide competition administered by the Graduate Fellowship Office. Departments select nominees for fellowships from the prospective applicant pool. Nominations are submitted for the following fellowships: Berkeley Fellowship, Chancellors Opportunity, Eugene Cota Robles, University Predoctoral Humanities, Regents Intern, GOP, and FLAS.The GOP Fellowship is a need-based fellowship for under-represented individuals who have shown academic achievement despite social, economic challenges, or educational obstacles. The Graduate and Professional Unit (GPU) of the Financial Aid Office also administers three need-based programs for UC Berkeley students: the Federal Student Direct Loan Program, Federal Work Study Program, and the UC Parent Grant Program, which offers a need-based grant for Berkeley graduate students with dependent children.Graduate students may apply for need-based loans and work study through the Graduate Financial Aid Office. All graduate students are considered independent under federal guidelines. In order to receive aid, students must also be enrolled and be making satisfactory academic progress toward their degrees.For dissertation research abroad later in the student's career, the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) offers several programs and funding opportunities. Many of our students also apply for fellowships from the  Fulbright Program, Mellon/ACLS, and the Freie Universität's Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies. Further opportunities are listed on the Graduate Division website.Teaching PositionsPart of our graduate students’ training includes teacher training as a Graduate Student Instructor (GSI). Teaching also provides for a large portion of our students’ financial aid.The guaranteed GSIship for entering students who hold a BA is normally limited to four years, while students entering with an MA are normally accorded only three years of teaching. A student who is on fellowship is allowed to teach only one semester per year while on fellowship.GSI salaries depend on how long the student has been teaching. For normal periods of service, GSIs earn a pay increase after two years of teaching at the university, and again after three years of teaching. A higher appointment is normally reserved for students with four years of teaching experience who have advanced to doctoral candidacy, and who have a record of outstanding college teaching, a record of scholarly achievement (papers presented/published), have earned a minimum GPA of 3.4, and who will have a teaching assignment involving exceptional responsibility.For further information, see Teaching and Pedagogy. More information about teaching and research opportunities is also available through the Graduate Division.Formal RequirementsWith the exception of the first semester of teaching and the semester of the qualifying examination (QE), students are expected to enroll in three courses per term at the upper-division (100-199) or graduate level (200-299), for a minimum of 12 units. A student may take a seminar on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory (S/U) basis if that student is enrolled in another research seminar for a grade. For seminars taken on an S/U basis, students are required to complete all assignments for the course except writing the final research paper.For the MA, students should have completed at least 24 units by the end of the third semester; 12 of these units must be in graduate courses in the German Department. With the approval of the head graduate adviser, students may take a total of eight units of independent preparation for the QE (German 602) in the semester of this examination, or four units each in the semester before and the semester of the QE. Following advancement to candidacy and while writing their dissertations, students may enroll for 12 units of German 299 (Individual Study) per semester. There is no unit total required for the PhD.The department’s formal requirements for graduation assume a student enters with a bachelor’s degree. Students entering the program with an MA from another institution must take the courses required of all students before the QE unless there is evidence of equivalent course work done elsewhere. Equivalency will be determined by the graduate adviser in consultation with the student, and a written statement to this effect will become a part of the student’s file. Such students will normally take the qualifying examination at the end of their third year or fifth semester. Yet the graduate adviser may grant an extension of one semester if the student's prior course work differs greatly from the program objectives at Berkeley.For quick reference, we have provided a PDF of the formal requirements, along with a series of possible coursework scenarios for completing the degree.Basic Requirements (12 units, 3 courses):Comprehensiveness Requirements (20 units, 5 courses):Five (5) graduate courses in the department, selected by the student in consultation with faculty advisers in view of the student’s desired specialization and in view of the historically comprehensive QE and the PhD.Further Specialization (minimum of 58 units):Language RequirementThere are two options to fulfill the language requirement. Students are strongly encouraged to acquire a useful reading knowledge in two languages other than English and German (Option I). Many of our students choose French, Latin, Dutch, Italian, Russian, Japanese, or Turkish. If students choose to learn only one language other than English and German, they are required to demonstrate exceptional proficiency in this language (Option II). The languages should have value for the students’ research project and probable future career needs, and are selected in consultation with the adviser. The language requirement must be fulfilled prior to the QE.Option I (two languages)Students choose two languages relating to their research for a reading examination in both, or by examination in one and by completing a course in the other as follows:Option II (one language)Students must demonstrate an exceptionally thorough reading knowledge in a language related to their advanced research and pass an examination administered by an appropriate faculty member. They are also required to pass (with a grade of B or better) an upper-division or graduate course, approved by the adviser, with a majority of the course materials in the target language.Designated EmphasesGraduate students may add a Designated Emphasis to their plans of study to gain a particular area of specialization. The Designated Emphasis is usually added before a student advances to candidacy.MA Examination
The MA examination is a written exam based on a text not previously announced to the student, on methodological questions, or on linguistic problems from the student’s main field of interest. The examination is usually taken in the third or fourth semester.By the sixth week of the semester in which the student takes the exam, the student will choose an examination committee consisting of three members, communicate to that committee an area of interest, and submit to the committee a list of works already read. The committee will choose an exam question, a text that is not on the reading list, or a linguistic problem from the area of interest and communicate it to the student two weeks before the examination. In response to the question, the student will write an essay in a three-hour time period.Within a week after writing the examination, the committee will meet with the student to discuss the examination and the student’s progress in the program. At a meeting of the German Department faculty at the end of the fall semester, the faculty will decide whether the student will be invited to proceed to doctoral work in the program.PhD Qualifying ExaminationThe PhD qualifying examination, or QE, consists of a written portfolio submitted to the student’s committee and a three-hour oral examination. The exam usually takes place in the student's seventh or eighth semester.In the year before the QE, the student should decide on an exam committee of three faculty members from the department and one faculty member from outside the department. This committee must be approved by the head graduate adviser six months before the exam is to take place.Once the committee has been approved, the student prepares a reading list for the exam. The reading list should show historical breadth while also highlighting texts within the student’s area of interest. Students generally choose a theme for their exams, to help make it easier for them to simultaneously showcase breadth and their research interests. Previous exam themes have included the apocalypse, problems with hermeneutics, the translator as a narrative character, and the genetic imaginary in literature. A digital database of suggestions for the reading list is available via a Zotero group to help students get started with their own lists. The reading list must be approved by the QE committee chair a month after the committee has been approved by the graduate adviser.In consultation with his or her committee, the student will then write a research proposal for the exam. This proposal usually follows the student’s exam topic as a “red thread” through German literary history. Sample prospectuses are available from the graduate assistant. The research proposal must be submitted to the committee by the first week of the semester in which the QE is to take place.The student must also turn in two revised papers from seminars he or she has taken in the department (Option I) or write two three-hour exams (Option II). Most students choose Option I. These are to be turned in to the committee with the research proposal and a final draft of the reading list.The QE is a three-hour exam. The committee will decide during the exam whether or not to pass the student. If the student passes the exam, he or she will advance to candidacy.Prospectus ConferenceBy the end of the semester after the QE, the student will submit to his or her dissertation committee a prospectus and any other work completed on the dissertation. After examining these materials, the dissertation committee will meet with the student to discuss progress and to offer advice. If the student is not available for this conference (for example, because of a research year abroad), the committee will meet without the student and the dissertation adviser will communicate the committee’s advice to the student. Annually thereafter, it is required that at least two members of the committee confer with the student, in addition to regular meetings with the dissertation chair.DissertationThe final requirement of the PhD is completion of a dissertation. Students should meet with their dissertation chairs to decide on appropriate timelines for research, time abroad, and the completion of individual chapters. Students are not required to defend the dissertation once the dissertation committee has decided the dissertation is finished.For further details and questions, please contact the Head Graduate Adviser, Chenxi Tang, or the Graduate Program Adviser, Andrea Rapport.The Department of German entertains a lively network of research connections with several universities abroad, offering graduate students the possibility to work with acclaimed faculty at other research institutions and to develop their own international networks early in their careers.Humboldt University, BerlinThe Department of German is a founding member of the PhD-Net Das Wissen der Literatur established at Humboldt Universität zu Berlin in 2008. The network includes the departments of German at Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, UC Berkeley, Harvard University, and Princeton University. It offers graduate students the possibility to study for one or two semesters at a partner institution and to participate in the shared thematic emphasis on the relationship between literature and forms of knowledge. The international collaboration offers students the possibility to work with renowned scholars at several research institutions and to engage in theoretical discussions about recent work in Europe and in the US.University of KonstanzThe Department of German is a founding partner in the MA program Kulturelle Grundlagen Europas at Universität Konstanz. The program offers students who specialize in questions of literature, migration, and globalization the possibility to pursue their studies and research projects with expert faculty at both universities and through student exchange.Ludwig-Maximilian University, MunichAn agreement of cooperation between UC Berkeley and Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München offers graduate students and faculty at both universities a new platform for international cooperation and exchange.Cambridge University, UKThe German Department at UC Berkeley currently is working on a cooperation with Cambridge University in the UK. Research areas in this cooperation include literature and film of the Weimar period and Medieval studies.Berkeley-Tübingen-Vienna-Harvard (BTWH) Working GroupGraduate students in the Department of German are members of the Berkeley-Tübingen-Wien-Harvard working group, an international cooperation of graduate students supported by the Townsend Center at UC Berkeley. This working group focuses on specific topics in literary theory and history, and organizes an annual international conference."Aesthetic Possibilities: Literature, Rhetoric, Philosophy" - Berkeley-Köln Summer SchoolThe Berkeley-Köln Summer School, established by the Anneliese Maier prize, offers graduate students the opportunity for intensive discussions focussed on aesthetics, rhetoric, and literary criticism with an international team of professors from Philosophy, Cultural Studies, Literary Studies, and Media Studies. The goal is to work cooperatively on theoretical questions beyond disciplinary boundaries.The five-day summer school will alternate between the Universität zu Köln and UC Berkeley. In the mornings there will be a seminar directed by one of the experts, in the afternoons there will be project presentations by participants. The discussion will be based on pre-distributed texts. The summer school will be conducted in both English and German.
 2015-2016Born, Erik
Sparks to Signals: Literature, Science and Wireless Technology, 1800-1930Johnson, Courtney
Inside in the City: Domestic Space in the Literature and Film of Weimar BerlinSavoth, Eric
Responding to Pain: Emotion, Medicine, and Culture between German Naturalism and Modernism2014-2015Almog, Yael
Hebrew Reminiscences: Global Religion, Politics and Aesthetics in the Rise of Hermeneutic ThinkingDickinson, Kristin (filed in Comparative Literature with Deniz Göktürk as Adviser)
Translation and the Experience of Modernity: A History of German Turkish ConnectivityDobryden, Paul
Cinema as Environment: The Emergence of German Film CultureGordon, Kevin A.
Traces in the Desert: The Poetics of Sand, Dust and Ash in German LiteratureManthripragada, Ashwin J.
Constituting a Self through an Indian Other. A Study of Select Works by Stefan Zweig and Hermann HesseMusanovic, Emina
The Shadow: An Unruly Modern Specter2013-2014Etzler, Melissa
Writing from the Periphery: W. G. Sebald and Outsider ArtLeBlanc, Mary Ellen
Inheritance and Inflectional Morphology: Old High German, Latin, Early New High German, and Koine Greek2012-2013Beals, Kurt
From Dada to Digital: Experimental Poetry in the Media AgeBackman, Donald
The Topographic Imagination: Kerouac, Regener, Kafka and the Quest for Self-RealizationHaubenreich, Jacob
The Materialities of Writing in Rilke’s The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge2011-2012Kolar, Meredith
Cognitive Structures Underlying Gendered Language Usage in Germany: Narration and Linguistic Fieldwork
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, MillerSt. Clair, Michael
Germanic Origins from the Perspective of the Y-Chromosome
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, SlatkinZahrt, Jennifer
The Astrological Imaginary in Early Twentieth-Century German Culture
Committee: Largier/Kaes, Sheehan2010-2011Bergerson, Jeremy
Apperception and Linguistic Contact between German and Afrikaans
Committee: Rauch/Shannon, Dewulf, LindowLayne, Priscilla
Black Voices, German Rebels: Acts of Masculinity in Postwar Popular Culture
Committee: Göktürk, Kaes, Guilbault2009-2010Huffmaster, Michael
Reading Kafka's Mind: Categories, Schemas, Metaphors
Committee: Kramsch, Kaes, Largier, SweetserPrice, Timothy
The Old Saxon Leipzig Heliand Manuscript Fragment (MS L): New Evidence Concerning Luther, the Poet, and Ottonian Heritage
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, LindowRahman, Sabrina
Designing Empire: Austria and the Applied Arts, 1864-1918
Committee: Kaes, Tennant, Göktürk, BernsteinSakalauskaite, Aida
Zoometaphors in English, German, and Lithuanian: A Corpus Study
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, FrickTrop, Gabriel
Aesthetic Exercises and Poetic Form in the Works of Hölderlin, Novalis, and Rococo Poets
Committee: Kudszus, Kaes, Largier, Kurke2008-2009Gramling, David
Where Here Begins: Monolingualism and the Spatial Imagination
Committee: Göktürk, Kaes, Kramsch, HanksHenderson, Dayton
The Cult of Antigone Conflicts in Commemorating Germany’s Fallen Soldiers
Committee: Kaes, Göktürk, Tennant, SandbergKooiker, Jason
Standard German and Dialect in the Swiss-German Classroom 
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, HintonSchechtman, Robert
Community and Utopia: The Discourse of Gemeinschaft and the Search for a New Modernity in Germany
Committee: Kaes, Göktürk, Largier, SandbergYamini-Hamedani, Azadeh
Waves of Translation: Goethe, Hafez, Nietzsche, Zoroaster
Committee: Kudszus, Rauch, Largier, Schwartz2007-2008Byram, Katra
Other People's Stories: Ethics, Identity, and Coming to Terms with the Past, 1871-Present
Committee: Holub, Tennant, KornfeldKambarov, Zaur
The Concept of Definiteness and Its Application to Nominal Reference Resolution with Particular Emphasis on German
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, LindowKoser, Julie
Representations of Armed Women in Eighteenth and Nineteenth-Century German Literature
Committee: Wilson, Seeba, MaslanWhitt, Jason
Evidentiality and Perception Verbs in English and German: A Corpus-Based Analysis from the Early Modern Period to the Present
Committee: Shannon, Rauch, Sweetser2006-2007Felsen, Sarah Bailey
In a Manner of Speaking: Yiddish and the Literature of the German-Jewish Subculture
Committee: Holub, Tennant, Seidman, EfronDewey, Tonya
The Origins and Development of Germanic V2: Evidence from Alliterative Verse
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, LindowHwang, June
Locating the Stranger in German Modernity
Committee: Kaes, Holub, Largier, KornfeldWarner, Chantelle
Legitimizing Lives: Stylistic Elements of Testimonial Practice in Contemporary German Literature
Committee: Kramsch, Göktürk, Largier, HanksWooten, David
The Triune Brain in Semiosis: Paul MacLean's Neuroethology and the Doctrine of Signs
Committee: Rauch, Kudszus, Holland2005-2006Ascarate, Richard
Extreme Foreignness: German Constructions of Latin America from the Early Modern to the Postmodern
Committee: Kaes, Largier, RabasaWellmon, Michael Chad
Becoming Human: Romantic Anthropology and the Embodiment of Freedom
Committee: Holub, Kaes, Kramsch, SeebaBanwell, Emily Jeanne
Why Grotesque? Transgression, Ambiguity and Humor in "Postraumatic" Literature
Committee: Kudszus, Largier, FrickBrett, Jeremy
Some Varieties of Melancholic Poetry (Hölderlin, Günther, Burton, Novalis, Freud)
Committee: Kudszus, Largier, JohnWoltemade, Peter
"der lac von einer tjoste tot / als im diu minne dar gebot." Courtly Love and Knightly Violence in Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival
Committee: Largier, Tennant, Lindow, Kaes, Kudszus2004-2005Cowan, Michael James
Culture of the Will: Nervousness and German Modernity
Committee: Kaes, Holub, Seeba, Largier, BernsteinHowell, Tiffany
V/banished Identities: The Case of Eastern German Humor
Committee: Kramsch, Göktürk, LakoffToth, Gergely Lajos
Linguistic interference and Native Language Attrition: German and Hungarian in the San Francisco Bay Area
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, HintonCoffey, Michael
Autosegmental Processes in Early Germanic: Evidence from Northwest Germanic
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, HymanRoberts, Lee
Ghost of a Nation: Totalitarian Spirit and the Literary Mind of WWII Germany and Japan
Committee: Kudszus/Seeba, TansmanShin, Suin
Grammaticalization of Politeness: A Contrastive Study of German, English, and Korean
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, Jun, Ohala2003-2004Goldman, Julie
Germanic Verbal Ablaut and Optimality Theory
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, Inkelas2002-2003Cudahy, Mary Akatiff
Fleisser, Bachmann, & H.D.: An Autobiographical Prejudice
Committee: Kudszus, Goldstein, SmockBarker, Geoffrey
Intonation Patterns in Tyrolean German: An Autosegmental-Metrical Analysis
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, HymanKapczynski, Jennifer
The German Patient: Metaphors of National Illness in Postwar Literature and Film
Committee: Kaes, Holub, SandbergKetchem, Sean
.DE,.RU,.COM: A Contrastive Analysis of Online Variation in German, Russian, and English
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, Timberlake2001-2002Cleek, John
Money, Prestige and the Development of Standard German
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, NilesFritz, Daniela
Language Socialization, Communicative Competence and Identity: Literary Representations of the Language Learner in Twentieth-Century German Literature
Committee: Kramsch, Kaes, KernHarjes, Kirsten
Denkmäler, Literatur und die Sprache der Erinnerung: Kollektives Gedenken an den Holocaust in Deutschland nach 1989
Committee: Seeba, Holub, Tennant, JamesJanko, Jiri
The Typology of the Relative Clause in Old High German: A Corpus Analysis
Committee: Rauch, Shannon, Kathol, AbrahamKopp, Kristin Leigh
Contesting Borders: German Colonial Discourse and the Polish Eastern TerritoriesVon Hoene, Linda
Fascism and Female Melancholia: The Lure of Fascism for the Female Subject in Psychoanalytic Theory, German Literature, and Film
Committee: Holub, Silverman, Goldstein, AbelWiliarty, Kevin
Turns of Phrases: Formulaic Directionals and Grammaticalization in Dutch Language Change and German Second Language Acquisition
Committe: Shannon, Kramsch, Sweetser1999-2000Ames, Eric
Where the Wild Things are: Locating the Exotic in German ModernityAugustyn, Prisca S.
The Semiotics of Fate, Death, and the Soul in Germanic Culture: The Christianization of Old SaxonClarke, Robert Doane
Bending the Light: Paul Celan's "Todesfuge"Collier Sy-Quia, Hilary Ann
The Body Politic in a Contested Present: Christa Wolf and the Making of HistoryErlin, Matthew Carter
Topographies of Tolerance: City, History, and Enlightenment in Eighteenth-Century BerlinHall, Sara Frances
Subject under Investigation: Weimar Culture and the PoliceMcFarland, Robert B.
Reading the Other Berlin: Flanerie, Vision, and the Poetics of Urban SpaceRitchie, James Andrew
Causation in Sound Change: Perception-Based Monophthongization in Old High German1998-1999Reitter, Paul Benedict
The Soul of Form: Karl Kraus, Essayism, and Jewish Identity in Fin-de Siecle Vienna1997-1998Delia, Rosemary
Fantasies of Identity: Kundry and the Redemption of Difference in Wagner's ParsifalSvenmo, Karin Marie
Just a Business Deal: Kafka, Strindberg, and the Discourse of EconomyWheeler, Brett Richard
Asthetic Reenchantments: The Work of Art and the Crisis of Politics in German ModernismStarkey, Kathryn
Discourses of Interaction: Word, Image, and Reception in Wolfram von Eschenbach's "Willehalm"1996-1997Belz, Julie Anne
Mind, Metaphor, and Prefix: Evidence for Prototype Category Structure in NHG ver-Frame, Lynne-Marie Hoskins
Forming and Reforming the New Woman in Weimar GermanyListen, Paul Henry
The Emergence of German Polite Sie: Cognitive and Sociolinguistic ParametersSmith, Arden Ray
Germanic Linguistic Influence on the Invented Languages of J.R.R. Tolkien1995-1996Blumberg, David Gabriel
"Singen möcht ich?": Hölderlin's Echo in New MusicCollison, Scott David
Performing Culture: Carnival and the Carnivalesque in Late Medieval and Early Modern Germany and SwitzerlandErb, James Robert
Performing at the Bar: Reconstructing the Nuremberg Fastnachtspiel of the Fifteenth CenturyNenno, Nancy Pauline
Masquerade: Woman, Nature, ModernitySeong, Sang Hwan
Extended Semantic Typology with Special Reference to German, English, and Korean1994-1995Gaus, Linda Louise
"Zuo nutz und heylsamer ler": Representations of Women in Early Modern German SatireHens, Gregor Wolfgang
Ditransitive Constructions in GermanIsenberg, Noah William
Between Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft: The Rise of German Modernism and the Question of Jewish IdentityVandergriff, Ilona Margerita
A Study of German Conditionals: Domain, Verb Position, and Pragmatic FunctionWise, Gail Elizabeth
Ali in Wunderland: German Representations of Foreign Workers1993-1994Berman, Nina Auguste
Orientalismus, Kolonialismus und Moderne: zum Bild des Orients in der deutschen Kultur um 1900Bledsoe, Robert Steven
Reading and Identity Construction in the Eighteenth Century German Novel (Gellert, La Roche, Nicolai, Goethe)Clopton, Laura Dale
Dative Reflexive Motion Verbs in Old Saxon: Syntax, Semantics, and DiscourseGott, Gil Michael
Migration, Ethnicization, and Germany's New Ethnic Minority LiteratureGreiner, Paul Joseph
Suprasegmentals in Germanic: Evidence from Gothic and Old High GermanPohle, Bettina Barbara
Kunstwerk Frau: Repräsentationen von Weiblichkeit in der ModernePolster, Arnim Henry
Childhood, Autonomy, and Social Order: The Pedagogy of Karl Philipp MoritzZhang, Lihua
A Contrastive Study of Aspectuality in German, English, and Chinese1992-1993Baackmann, Susanne
"Erklär mir Liebe": weibliche Schreibweisen von Liebe in der GegenwartsliteraturEstabrook, Bernd Klaus
"Das geisteskranke Fragen nach einem Bewusstseyn": Dialectic and Rationality in the Work of Friedrich Hölderlin1991-1992Dunlap, Samuel Roy
Among the Cannibals and Amazons: Early German Travel Literature on the New WorldFoell, Kristie A.
Blind Reflections: Gender in Elias Canetti's "Die Blendung"Forester, Lee Allen
Umlaut Phenomena in Early New High German Discourse: A Pragmatic ApproachKreide, Caroline
Lou Andreas-Salomé: Feministin oder Antifeministin? Eine Standortbestimmung zur wilhelminischen FrauenbewegungLevin, David Jonathan
Taking a Stab at the Truth: Narrative Education and Aggression in the Nibelungenlied, Richard Wagner's Ring des Nibelungen, and Fritz Lang's SiegfriedMiller, Wayne Vincent
The Literary Canon as Process: Early Heinrich and Thomas Mann Novels in their Contemporary ReceptionNewton, Stephen Leslie
German/English Lexicographical Contrasts: City, Queen (quean), YardRalston, Kenneth Michael
The Captured Horizon: Heidegger and the Nactwachen von Bonaventura1990-1991Federle, James Courtney
Authenticities: Bodies, Gardens, and Pedagogies in Late-Eighteenth Century GermanyKrooks, David Andrew
At the Intersection of Semiotics and Linguistic Semantics: Sign in the Old Saxon Heliand and the Old High German EvangelienbuchMildenhall, Nicholas
The Interaction of Love and Art in Gottfried's TristanOstrem, Francine
Maternal Inscriptions: Jelinek, Kafka, Sacher-MasochPahl, Leslie Ann
Margins of Modernity: The Citizen and the Criminal in the Weimar RepublicPoeter, Elisabeth
"Der Frauen Wissenschaft ist der Mann": Phantasie und Wirklichkeit weiblicher BildungTorno, Timothy Carl
The Study of Temporality in Literature: Heidegger and Hölderlin1989-1990Brown, Robert Hutchins
Nature's Hidden Terror: Violent Nature Imagery and Social Change in Eighteenth Century German WritingsBrunner, Edda Sonnhilde
Sprache, Ideologie und Praxis in Kleists "Marquise von O...": Spannungsmomente und gesellschaftliche MachtverhältnisseSchiffman, Byron Charles
Early New High German Technical Writings of Albrecht Dürer: Focus on Translation and Linear SyntaxTrauth, Gregory Paschal
German and English Academic Genres: A Contrastive Study of Astronomical Sublanguage and DiscourseVon Pohl, Ann Louise
Problems in Consonant Gemination: Germanic Evidence1988-1989Brauner, Sigrid Maria
Frightened Shrews and Fearless Wives: The Concept of the Witch in Early Modern German Texts (1487-1560)Kosta, Barbara Kujundzich
Personal Histories: Autobiography and Female Identity in Contemporary German Literature and Film1987-1988Frickmann, Sybille
Erfahrungsseelenkunde. Karl Phillip Moritz' Beitrag zur Entwicklung der empirischen Psychologie im Kontext zeitgenössischer psychologischer und literarischer TexteHenrotte, Gayle Allen
Language, Linguistics, and Music: A Source StudyKeutel, Walter
Der Autor als Fiktion: Produktive literarische Rezeption am Beispiel Robert WalsersTschirner, Erwin Paul
Aktionalitätsklassen der Prädikate des NeuhochdeutschenWauchope, Mary Michele
The Grammar of the Old High German Particles thoh, ia, and thanne1986-1987Genzmer, Herbert
Mendacity: On Contrastive Discourse Structures in German, English, and SpanishHamilton, Albert James
Johann Gottfried Herder and the Critique of Historical ReasonHasty, Willard Ray
The Adventure as Social Performance: A Study of the German Court EpicMurphy, Richard
The Decentered Reader: The Dramatication of Subjectivity and German ExpressionismVaughan, Larry
Johann Georg Hamann: Metaphysics of Language and Vision of HistoryWietlisbach, Cornel Joseph
Mögliche Wirklichkeit - wirkliche Möglichkeit?: Kritische Betrachtungen zu E.Y. Meyers "In Trubschachen" und "Die Rückfahrt"1985-1986Bister, Helga
Studien zum Dialekt von Krefeld am NiederrheinClark, Jonathan Philip
Immediacy and Experience: Institutional Change and Spiritual Expression in the Works of Quirinus KuhlmannCook, Roger Franklin
The Demise of the Author: The Growth of the German Reading Public and the Writer's Retreat, 1770-1848Gilbert, Steven MacLeod
Chasing the Frenzied Hare: Wolfram's Earthly Aesthetic in the Prologue and Imagery of ParzivalGuidry, Glenn Alan
Language, Ethics, and Society: A Model of Communication in Fontane and HofmannsthalKaussen, Karl Josef
Interlingual Transfer in the Translation of Scientific and Technical TextsLehrer, Mark Alan
Intellektuelle Aporie und literarische Originalität. Wissenschaftsgeschichtliche Studien zum deutschen Realismus: Keller, Raabe und FontaneMcCormick, Richard William
The Politics of the Personal: West German Literature and Cinema in the Wake of the Student MovementPainter, Sigrid Dejas
Die Aussprache des Frühneuhochdeutschen nach Lesemeistern des 16 Jahrhunderts - A study of the Pronunciation of Early New High German in the 16th century1984-1985Allert, Beate Ilse
Die Metapher und ihre Krise zur Dynamic der "Bilderschrift" Jean PaulsHall, Margaret Austin
Syntactic and Semantic Patterning with the Verb BE in the Older Germanic LanguagesMurray, Hollice Marie
Literary Revolution as Bordello Romance: The Ideology of Gender and the Gender of Ideology in the Dawn of German ModernismParker, Timothy Scott
Modern North Frisian and North German: A Case Study in Language Variation and Language Change Between Languages in ContactQuinn, Thomas Paul
Heinrich von Kleist und die Frage nach GottWilliams, Eric Brian
Pictures, Poetry, and Play: A study of Georg Trakl and Poetic Language1983-1984Ahlbrecht, Wulf Heinrich
Wirklichkeit aus dem entgleiten Versuch zu Paul Celans späten GedichtenDowden, Stephen Dell
The Authority of Imagination. A Study in the Novel of German Modernism: Kafka, Broch, Musil, and Thomas MannGooze, Marjanne Elaine
Bettine von Arnim, the WriterRaney, Roslyn Sue
A Discourse Approach to Word Order Change in Germanic, Romance, and Celtic1982-1983Harris, Judith May
Modes of Domination: The Social Dimension in Ingeborg Bachmann's FictionLackner, Regina Eis
Peter Rühmkorf: A Question of BalanceLove, Myra Norma
Das Spiel mit offenen Möglichkeiten: Subjectivity and the Thermatization of Writing in the Works of Christa WolfLovik, Thomas Allan
A Conversational Analysis of German Service Encounters: Toward a Pragmatic Grammar of Modern Standard GermanMay, Gabriele Schmoll
Tradition im Umbruch: zur Sophokles-Rezeption im deutschen Vormärz1981-1982Chun, Dorothy Maria
A Contrastive Study of the Suprasegmental Pitch in Modern German, American English, and Mandarin Chinese1980-1981Menzies, John Karl
Schiller, Historical Truth, and the Netherlands: The Genesis of Schiller's Concept of HistoryPrandi, Julie D.
Sprited Women Heroes of the Goethezeit: Women Protagonists in the Dramas of Goethe, Schiller, and Kleist1979-1980Asher, Evelyn Westermann
Urteil ohne Richter: die psychische Integration oder die Entfaltung des Charakters im Werke Franz KafkasKeul, Norman Carl
Semantic Structures in the Minnesang of Heinrich von Morungen: A Textual Linguistic AnalysisSparing, Margarethe Wilma
The Perception Reality in the Volksmärchen of Schleswig-Holstein: A Study in Interpersonal Relationships and World ViewTubach, Sally Patterson
Female Homoeroticism in German Literature and Culture1977-1978Meyerhofer, Nicholas Joseph
A Strong Tendency Towards Silence: Communication and Semantic Resistance in the Works of Paul CelanNutting, Peter West
Jean Paul and the Rise of Humor1976-1977Bishop, Harry M.
The "Subjectless" Sentences of Old High GermanHammond, Theresa Mayer
American Paradise: German Travel Literature from Duden to Kisch
Chair: SeebaMorse, Margaret Elizabeth
The Works of Arthur Schnitzler as an Index of Cultural Change: Relationships between the Sexes in Society, Ideology, and the ImaginationWijsen, Louk M. P. T.
Psychoanalysis and the Literary Symbol: A Structural Approach to Imagery, Language, and Thought in LiteratureWolfram, Manfred Kurt
Television as a Contemporary Literary Form: A TheoryWright, Barbara Drygulski
Expressionist Utopia: The Pursuit of Objectless Politics1975-1976Hathaway, Luise Hertrich
Laut- und Bedeutungswandel in der Imster Mundart zwischen 1897 und 1973Strodach, Elizabeth Aborn
Studies in Phonological and Analogical Change in Early North GermanicVoge, Wilfried M.
The Pronunciation of "Standard German" According to the Descriptions of Eighteenth Century Grammarians1974-1975Critchfield, Richard Demar
Lessing and Brecht: A Comparative StudyGelus, Marjorie Ann
Hölderlin's "Mnemosyne": An Interpretation1973-1974Aikin, Judith Popovich
Christian Views of History and Politics in the Dramas of Daniel Caspar von LohensteinClausing, Gerhard Robert Bernd
On the Structure of Contemporary Colloquial GermanHannemann, Bruno
Verkehrtes theatrum mundi und verflixter Kerl: zu Johann Nestroys Bild vom MenschenMueller, Irmgard Sieker
Schillers "Die Räuber" im Spiegel der Zeit von der Entstehung bis 1859Sharp, Francis Michael
A Poet of Despair Re-examined: Altered Consciousness and Values in Georg Trakl's Poetry1972-1973Cameron, Beatrice Adrienne
Anti-Computer: An Essay on the Work of Paul Celan, Followed by Selected Poems in Translation1971-1972Stone, Edward James
The Phonological System in the Leiden Williram1969-1970Bennett, Peirson Sterling Page
The Motif of Seeing and the Symbol of the Eye in Hermann Broch's BergromanBrowning, Barton W.
Artifice Visible: Literary Mannerism in the Dramas of Daniel Casper von LohensteinCook, Frances Beck
The Dream Image in the Poetry of Georg HeymJaeger, Charles Stephen
The Prologue Tradition in Middle High German RomanceKossuth, Karen Catherine
A Case Grammar of Verbal Predicators in Old IcelandicKraft, Helga Wilhelmine
Harmonie und Missklang: Eine Studie der musikalischen und akustischen Zeichen in den Werken von Heinrich von KleistMcCann, David Russell
Shakespeare in Brecht's Dialectical Theater: A Study of the Coriolanus AdaptationSouth, Marie-Luise Sacks
Der Doppelsinn des Lebens: Dialektische Rhetorik als Strukturprinzip in Schillers Wallenstein1968-1969Eifler, Margret
Das Groteske in drei Parodien Thomas Manns: "Joseph und seine Brüder," "Das Gesetz," "Der Erwählte"Gray, Clayton
Motifs of Classical Minnesang: Their Origin, Content, and DevelopmentRickerson, Earl Martin
The lingua adamica: Its Historical Development and Its Role in German Baroque LiteratureStenberg, Peter Alvin
The Theme of Time and the Golden Age: A Study of Meister Eckhart, Novalis, and HofmannsthalWaldenrath, Douglas Alexander
Gotthold Ephraim Lessing - the Humanist1967-1968Bahr, Ehrhard Carl Oskar
"Diese sehr ernsten Scherze ..." - Studien zum Problem der Ironie in Goethes Spätwerk (Divan, Wanderjahre und Faust II)Clyde, Monica Weber
Der Bildungsgedanke bei Wilhelm RaabeGiegerich, Wolfgang
Der verlonene Sohn - vom Ursprung des Dichtens Wilhelm RaabesHinman, Martha Mayo
Rhetoric and Ornamentation in the Songs of Walther von der VogelweideKudszus, Winfried
Ödipus der Sprache: zum sprachlichen Geschehen beim späten und spätesten HöderlinOber, Peter Chapin
Sense Images for Noetic Experience in the Works of Meister EckhartRead, Ralph Russell
The Politization of Modern German Historical DramaRichards, David Gleyre
The Works of George Büchner: A Study in Form and MeaningWheelis, Samuel Millard
Nicodemus Frischlin: Comedian and Humanist1966-1967Kluger, Ruth
The Development of the German Epigram in the 17th CenturyPimentel, Raul
The German Historical Folksong of the Late Middle AgesThomas, Barry Gillespie
Gottfried Keller: Appearance and Reality in his Prose Works1965-1966Baron, Frank E.
The Beginnings of German Humanism: The Life and Work of the Wandering Humanist Peter LuderBragg, Marvin Howell
The Concept of the Profession of Poet in Germany during the Eighteenth Century and the Evolution of a New Theory of LiteratureMaurer, Warren R.
The Naturalist Appraisal of German LiteratureMihailovich, Vasa D.
Hermann Hesse and RussiaSullivan, John Herman
The German Religious Sonnet of the Seventeenth Century1964-1965Fetzer, John F.
Music in the Life and Works of Clemens BrentanoLowe, Pardee Joe Yee
German Noun Formation, 1964: SuffixationVan Asselt, Jan
A Graphological Study of the Language of Zeno, a Middle Low German1963-1964Feder, Murray Harold
A Source Study and Interpretation of the Middle High German Poem: Die Gute FrauStavenhagen, Lee
The Science of Parzival1962-1963Hertling, Gunter H.
Wandlung der Werte im dichterischen Werke der Ricarda HuchMcWilliams, James R.
Thomas Mann's Heroes: Their Guilt and Its Significance1961-1962Farquharson, Robert Howard
The Development of the Love Theme in the Works of Hermann HesseGish, Theodor Gordon
Immer nach Hause: The Theme of Wandering from Its Literary Beginnings Through Romanticism in GermanyMileck, Margrethe Schioler
Scandinavian Antiquity in German Literature from 1745 to 17731960-1961Brueckner, Hans-Dieter
Heldengestaltung in Conrad Ferdinand Meyers ProsawerkenHortenback, Jenny Christa
Freiheitsstreben und Destruktivität: Frauen in den Dramen August Stringbergs und Gerhart Hauptmanns1959-1960Wiseman, Richard Wallace
Music and the Problem of Evil: Condemnation and Affirmation in the Works of Thomas Mann and Hermann Hesse1958-1959Rosenau, Henriette
Die Symbolik im Werk der Dichterin Gertrud von Le FortSpaethling, Robert Herbert
Der neue Stil im Drama des Sturm und Drangs1957-1958McNeely, James Alexander
Political Themes in the Literature of the German Enlightenment1956-1957Hauser, Ronald
Friedrich Hebbel and the Storm and StressLogan, Alan Livingston
The Attitude of the Early Nietzsche toward German LiteratureRichter, Glenda Gillard
Daniel Casper von Lohenstein and the TurksTubach, Frederic Christian
History of the Exemplum in Germany to 15001955-1956Babcock, Leland Stillman
Concepts of the Good Life in Stifter's Early WorksBlaisdell, Foster Warren
The Preposition-Adverbs in the Oldest Icelandic Prose ManuscriptsDunkle, Harvey Ivan
C.M. Wieland's Aesthetic Evaluation of LiteratureEngelsing, Ingeborg
"Amor fati" in Zuckmayers Dramen, 1925-1955Iiams, Carlton Laird
Aegidiu Albertinus and Antonio de GuevaraRichter, Leo Thomas
The Italian Influence upon German Letters during the Fifteenth and Sixteenth CenturiesTaylor, Ransom Theodore
The Concept of Political Power in the Works of Alfred Neumann1954-1955Daviau, Donald George
The Significance of Hermann Bahr to AustriaShetter, William Z.
Umlaut in Medieval Dutch Nonliterary Texts1953-1954Henningsen, Caroline Henrietta
The East Frisian Dialect of Point Pleasant, Sacramento County, CaliforniaShaw, Leroy Robert
The Concept of 'Kulturluge' in Hauptmann's Early WorksWilbur, Terence Harrison
A Study of the Magical Vocabulary of Common Germanic1952-1953Nicholls, Roger Archibald
Early Thomas Mann and NietzscheWilkie, Richard Francis
Christian Felix Weisze and his Relation to French and English Literature1949-1950Goldsmith, Ulrich Karl
The Will to Power in the Poetical Genesis of Stefan GeorgeKraft, Walter Carl
The Phonology of Wittenweiler's RingSchmidt, S. Edgar
German Librettos and Librettists from Postel's Psyche (1701) to Schikaneder's Zauberflote (1794)1948-1949Height, Joseph S.
The Translation of Goethe's Lyric Poems into English1947-1948Bergel, Kurt [ed.]
Der Briefwechsel von Georg Brandes und Arthur SchnitzlerRoeger, William Albert [ed.]
Georg Hager's Zweites Liederbuch: a Sixteenth Century Anthology of MeistergesangSobel, Eli
A Hans Sachs Anthology: The Meistertöne of Berlin 4141946-1947Brown, Francis Andrew
The Ideas of John Locke in the German AufklärungLombardi, Stephanie Orth
Josef von Sonnenfels and the Viennese stageRoertgen, William Francis
The Frankfurter gelehrte Anzeigen in Relation to the Literature of the Time (1772-1790)1943-1944Hagge, Carl William
Gabriel Rollenhagen's Amantes Amentes: An Introduction and Notes to the Edition of 1614Riordan, John Lancaster
The Pleier's Place in German Arthurian Literature1942-1943Brenninger, Ralph Alfred
A Study of the Fugger Financial Vocabulary, 1494-15251941-1942Moeller, Eric
Poetic Style and Technique in the Heroic Lays of the EddaWhitesell, Frederick Rhodes
Middle High German Text Publication, 1800-18561940-1941Immerwahr, Raymond Max
Ludwig Tieck's Contribution in Theory and Practice to the German Romanticists' Conception of Comedy1937-1938Cohn, Fritz Ludwig
France and the Poetry of the German VormärzEngelbarts, Rudolf Karl Wilhelm
Karl Rosenkranz als Literaturhistoriker und Kritiker1936-1937Borden, Charles Ernest
Johann Elias Schlegel als Vorläufer Gotthold Ephrain Lessings1935-1936Melz, Fritz
Wieland und Tieck: Ein VergleichSchmitz, Frederick Josef
Lessings Stellung in der Entfaltung des Individualismus im 18. Jahrhundert1934-1935Bunje, Emil Theodore Hieronymus
A Reconsideration of the Main Difficulties in the Expository Part of the Hildebrandslied1933-1934Delfs, Annemarie Helene
Die politische Lyrik des Dreissigjährigen Krieges von 1618-1648Harrison, Margaret (Hayne)
A Comparative Study of Modern Religious Drama in Germany and France1925-1926King, Henry Safford
Echoes of the American Revolution in German Literature1924-1925MacInnes, Isabel Stewart
The Influence of Feminism on the German Women Novelists1922-1923Gudde, Erwin Gustav
Freiligraths Entwicklung als politischer DichterKleine, Mathilde
Zur Entwicklung der Futurumschreibung 'Werden' mit dem Infinitiv1919-1920Bell, Clair Hadyen
The Sister's Son in the Medieval German EpicReinsch, Frank Herman
Goethe's Political Interests prior to 17871912Wyneken, Friedrich Alexander
Rousseaus Einfluss auf Klinger1908Pinger, Wilhelm Robert Richard
Der junge Goethe und das PublikumThe department has an outstanding placement record. Over the last decade, PhDs in German accepted tenure-track or long-term positions at the following institutions: The University of Arizona, Brigham Young University, Georgetown University, University of Illinois at Chicago, Southern Illinois University, Indiana University/Purdue University, University of Maryland, McGill University in Montreal, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Ohio State University, University of Rochester, University of Virginia, University of Washington at Seattle, and Washington University in St. Louis.The department is committed to helping students secure appointments in academia. This effort includes a workshop on all aspects of the academic job market early in each fall semester, reviewing of curriculum vitae and letters of application, mock interviews, and follow-up advising.Placements by Year (since 2010)2015-16Born, Erik [Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Society for the Humanities, Cornell University]
Dobryden, Paul [Asst. Prof., University of Virginia]
Ellis, Robin [Visiting Asst. Prof. Davidson College]
Mušanović, Emina [Asst. Prof., Linfield College]2014-15Allred, Mason [Historian and Editor, The Joseph Smith Papers]
Dickinson, Kristin [Asst. Prof., University of Michigan]
Gordon, Kevin A. [Instructional Designer, UCLA Extension]2013-14Almog, Yael [Asst. Prof., Center of Literary and Cultural Research in Berlin (ZfL)]
Etzler, Melissa [Instructor, Butler University]
Manthripragada, Ashwin [Visiting Asst. Prof., Hobart and William Smith Colleges]2012-13Beals, Kurt [Asst. Prof., Washington University in St. Louis]
Haubenreich, Jacob [Asst. Prof., Southern Illinois University]
Kooiker, Jason [Lecturer, Stanford Language Center]2011-12Dewey, Tonya [Asst. Prof., University of Minnesota, Morris]
Kolar, Meredith [Lecturer, University of Zürich]
Layne, Priscilla [Asst. Prof., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill]
Price, Timothy [Research Fellow, University Frankfurt, Germany]
St. Clair, Michael [Lecturer, UC Berkeley]2010-11Gramling, David [Asst. Prof., The University of Arizona]
Trop, Gabriel [Asst. Prof., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill] The following  is a list of current positions of graduates:Ames, Eric [Prof., University of Washington]
Ascárate, Richard [Visiting Asst. Prof., George Washington University]
Augustyn, Prisca [Prof., Florida Atlantic University]
Baackmann, Susanne [Assoc. Prof., University of New Mexico]
Berman, Nina [ Prof., Ohio State University]
Blumberg, David [Chair of Department of World Languages, Campolindo High School, Moraga, CA]
Byram, Katra [Asst. Prof., Ohio State University]
Clarke, Robert [Teaching Fellow, UC Berkeley]
Cleek, John [Lecturer, UC Berkeley]
Coffey, Michael [Lecturer, UC Berkeley]
Collier Sy-Quia, Hilary [Ermitage International School France]
Cowan, Michael [Reader, University of St. Andrews]
Cudahy, Mary [Asst. Prof., Southern Illinois University, Carbondale]
Erlin, Matthew [Prof., Washington University, St. Louis]
Hall, Sara [Assoc. Prof., University of Illinois, Chicago]
Harjes, Kirsten [Lecturer, UC Davis]
Howell, Tess [Adjunct Prof. Southern Methodist University]
Huffmaster, Michael [Assistant Professor at the Universidad de Puerto Rico — Mayagüez]
Hwang, June [Assoc. Prof., University of Rochester]
Isenberg, Noah [Prof., The New School Eugene Lang College]
Kapczynski, Jennifer [Assoc. Prof., Washington University]
Kopp, Kristin [Assoc. Prof., University of Missouri]
Koser, Julie [Assoc. Prof., University of Maryland]
Kosta, Barbara [Assoc. Prof., The University of Arizona]
Lagrone, Emily Banwell [Freelance Translator, Oakland, CA]
McFarland, Robert [Assoc. Prof., Brigham Young]
McCormick, Richard [Professor, University of Minnesota]
Nenno, Nancy [Assoc. Prof., College of Charleston]
Reitter, Paul [Prof., Ohio State University]
Roberts, Lee [Assoc. Prof., Indiana University/Purdue University]
Roberts, Suin [Assoc. Prof., Indiana University/Purdue University at Fort Wayne]
Sakalauskaite, Aida [Instructor, College of Alameda]
Starkey, Kathryn [Prof., Stanford University]
Toth, Gergely [Assoc. Instructor, University of Utah]
Warner, Chantelle [Assoc. Prof., The University of Arizona]
Wellmon, Chad [Assoc. Prof., University of Virginia]
Whitt, Jason [Research Fellow, University of Nottingham]
Wiliarty, Kevin [Academic Technology Coordinator., Wesleyan University]
Yamini-Hamedani, Azadeh [Asst. Prof., Simon Fraser University, Canada]Last updated on 05/17/2016.Fully committed to promoting excellence in teaching, the German Department emphasizes the thorough pedagogical and professional development of Graduate Student Instructors (GSIs). All of our graduate students have ample opportunity to teach in a vibrant and innovative language program while receiving extensive training in teaching language and culture at the beginning, intermediate, and advanced levels. The pedagogical issues raised reach beyond the language classroom to students’ future roles as professors of literature and linguistics. By reflecting on their own teaching practice and its relationship to current theory, our graduate students are prepared for a strong start on the job market and for continuous professional development throughout their teaching careers.GSIs begin teaching one section per semester of a lower-division German course (first- through fourth-semester language instruction, usually beginning with German 1). Later in their careers they can also apply to teach courses in conversation, German for reading knowledge, and Reading and Composition. The latter courses (offered in English on German topics) are especially important after the QE, as they allow students to teach literature and devise their own syllabi. These courses also let them test out their ideas—often derived from their dissertations—with a small group of bright freshmen and sophomores.Most classes meet 50 minutes per day, five days a week. Beyond daily classroom teaching, GSI duties include the following:Evaluation of your effectiveness as a teacher will be based not only upon your classroom performance (as assessed by faculty and coordinator visits), but also upon your fulfillment of the above obligations. Your reappointment as a GSI will also depend upon your fulfillment of these obligations.Distinguishing FeaturesOur core development sequence for professional development goes far beyond that offered by most graduate programs and includes the following components:Bridging Theory and Practice: Language Pedagogy SeminarsThe first semester of the language pedagogy seminar (German 350, see sample syllabus) focuses on principles of teaching methodology, research in Second Language Acquisition, skill-specific techniques, assessment, roles and tasks in the classroom, teaching culture, and approaches to critical reflection. The second semester (German 351, see sample syllabus) looks toward the teaching of intermediate and advanced language/culture courses. Instructional technologies, teaching writing, teaching the literary text, and issues in curriculum design form the main topics, with a continued emphasis on current research and critical reflection. In addition, each course includes a practical component in which graduate student instructors relate the seminar principles to current classroom activities, receive guidance, exchange materials, and generally coordinate their teaching efforts.Gaining Experience: Teaching OpportunitiesIn the course of their studies, graduate students have the opportunity to teach a broad range of courses. Generally, all GSIs will teach at least the first two years of German (German 1-4). This experience alone covers a range from communicative teaching of the basics to content-
based instruction with an emphasis on critical inquiry into the nature of language and culture.Other teaching opportunities include conversation courses, German for Reading Knowledge, a German gender perspectives course, and the freshman composition courses R5A and R5B. The latter are taught in English and include extensive readings of German literature in translation on a topic developed by the instructor.Supporting Professional Development: Courses and CentersThe campus offers a rich and unique support system for the professional and intellectual development of teachers. The GSI Teaching and Resource Center (director: Linda von Hoene) and the Berkeley Language Center (director: Rick Kern) offer a range of pedagogical workshops and lecture series which regularly feature world-renowned researchers in the fields of Second Language Acquisition and Applied Linguistics, as well as stimulating panel discussions and seminars on issues directly relevant to language teaching and learning at Berkeley and in other institutional contexts. In addition, the BLC offers up to six graduate research fellowships each year to conduct research on ways to improve instruction in any of the languages taught on the Berkeley campus.The department has curated a variety of resources that may be of service to prospective, current, and past undergraduate and graduate students, as well as to interested members of the community.The strength of the German program at Berkeley is greatly enhanced by the excellence of other departments at the university. The most recent National Research Council survey reported that Berkeley has more top-ranked doctoral programs than any other university in the nation. Thirty-five of Berkeley's thirty-six PhD programs were ranked in the top ten of their field. From Art History to Music, Political Science and Rhetoric to Architecture and Linguistics, the reputation of the Berkeley campus is not easily matched by any institution of higher education in the world.The department also benefits from a wide variety of organizations on campus—the Institute of European Studies, the Berkeley Language Center, the Berkeley Linguistics Society, the Townsend Center for the Humanities, and the Center for Studies in Higher Education. The recently established UC Consortium for Language Learning and Teaching, of which Berkeley is a member, affords all those involved in the practice and the theory of second language acquisition an opportunity to share resources and intellectual events.The Pacific Film Archive, the Berkeley Repertory Theater, and the Judah L. Magnes Jewish Museum are within walking distance from the campus. The Goethe Institute is located in nearby San Francisco.The Main Library contains roughly nine million volumes, with the Germanic collection alone comprising nearly 800,000 volumes. These holdings make it possible to do original research based on excellent primary sources. They are complemented by the collections of the libraries at the Graduate Theological Union, Stanford University, UCLA, and the other UC campuses, with which Berkeley has reciprocal borrowing arrangements. Our sizable departmental library includes a substantial video collection of German films and a viewing station, as well as recent German newspapers, magazines, and periodicals. It is an inviting place to read and relax.The intellectual life on campus—with its steady stream of internationally renowned speakers, symposia, conferences, and (maintaining Berkeley's reputation from the 1960s) rallies in support of local and global causes—is unique. Dozens of working groups, sponsored by the Humanities Center and made up of students and faculty from different departments, meet regularly to explore topics of particular interest. These have proved most effective in fostering intellectual exchange across disciplines and academic cultures within the Berkeley community. Students in the German Department have initiated two of these working groups, one on German idealism and another on the emergence of modernity.WHAT: 2018 Commencement ceremony for the following participating departments: Celtic Studies, Comparative Literature, French, German, Italian Studies Program, Scandinavian, Slavic, and Spanish & Portuguese.WHEN: Monday, May 14, 2018, from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.WHERE: Ceremony will take place at the Zellerbach Playhouse.WHO: Students completing their BA, MA, and PhD degrees in Fall 2017 and Spring, Summer, or Fall 2018. Students may participate only once.What you need to know:Contact Information for Various Departments:Related InformationDegree InformationFellowships and GrantsFinancial Aid and EmploymentTeaching and Research OpportunitiesUnderrepresented StudentsStudent ResourcesCollectionsMain Library
Main Library Catalog
Media Resources Center
German Library ResourcesThe University Library and the Germanic CollectionsThe Germanic Collections of the University Library are among the most varied and extensive American collections of research materials in the humanities and social sciences from Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and the Scandinavian countries. As part of an overall University Library collection of more than 9 million volumes, the Germanic Collections currently number approximately 780,000 volumes and are growing at the rate of approximately 12,000 volumes per year. They span all periods of German, Dutch, and Scandinavian publishing, with special strength in Germanic literature and linguistics, including many first editions and rare books in those fields.In addition to literature, literary theory, and language, the collections also exhibit exceptional strength in history, philosophy, sociology, political science, cinema, and popular culture. The holdings of primary and secondary works from the age of Goethe, the Weimar Republic, and contemporary German literature (including especially the works of non-native authors writing in German) are considered to be among the strongest in US research libraries. The University Library also holds extensive runs of newspapers and scholarly journals (in print, microform, and digital form) dating in some cases back to the 18th century and including dozens of newspapers from more than 40 cities in the German- and Dutch-speaking countries of Europe and in Scandinavia. In addition, thanks to its close ties to educational and research institutions in the former German Democratic Republic (Deutsche Demokratische Republik, or DDR), the library possesses the largest collection of material on the DDR among US research libraries.The Germanic Collections have been built through a combination of extensive acquisition through purchase of new commercially-available materials, a far-reaching system of exchange agreements with more than 450 scholarly institutions in the countries listed above (including many in the former DDR), and an active program of gift solicitation from scholars and research institutions.The University Library’s catalogs and Internet resources are available online, around the clock, worldwide at no charge to Berkeley students and faculty, and its holdings are represented in the major US and international online union catalogs. Berkeley’s students and faculty also have user privileges at both Stanford University Library and the libraries of the seven other University of California campuses, including the extensive Germanic collections of UCLA’s Research Library. Berkeley’s library is an active participant in national and international interlibrary lending, and its unique Germanic materials are in heavy demand by scholars at other institutions. The Germanic Collections have been the beneficiaries of numerous federal and private enrichment grants, many of which have been used to strengthen the University Library’s holdings of rarely-held ephemeral materials.Special CollectionsThe University Library’s collections have been enhanced by the following purchases or gifts: the Bukofzer Library (ca. 1,000 volumes in German literature); the Burdach Library (ca. 6,700 volumes, strong in Medieval and Renaissance literary materials from Germany); the German 17th century and 18th century Literature Collection (many rare translations of 18th century classics from English to German, important poetical handbooks, runs of poetry journals from German-speaking Europe); the Bremer Library (ca. 3,000 volumes with special strength in 17th century German language and etymology, phonetics, phonology, modern German dialects and Frisian language and literature); the Hesse Archives (purchased in 1959; the most complete collection of materials on Hermann Hesse in the world, containing more than 1,400 items including books, the scores of musical settings for Hesse’s poems, newspaper and magazine clippings, pamphlets, phonograph recordings, translations into foreign languages, and extensive secondary literature on Hesse); the Loomis Collection (106 volumes and numerous pamphlets relative to Baroque and Renaissance literature in Germany, including many first editions and scarce materials from the earliest period in German printing); one of the most extensive collections in the world of Dutch Underground Press materials from the period of German occupation in the Netherlands during World War II; and the Weinhold Library, the cornerstone of Berkeley’s collections of rare and scarce literary materials, which consists of around 10,000 volumes on all periods and genres of German literature (especially rich in early and first editions).In 1995, the library acquired the private collection of Martin Bircher, which details the history and activities of the Fruchtbringende Gesellschaft, Germany’s oldest learned society. It contains more than 600 early printed works, 300 manuscript items, and 300 pictorial items related to the society’s scope of activities in the 17th century; it is an invaluable source for the study of Early Modern German literature. In 2000, the University Library absorbed the holdings of the now-defunct Goethe Institute Library in San Francisco.Media Resources CenterThe library’s Media Resources Center is one of the largest collections of videos in a US academic library. Located on the basement floor of Moffitt Library, the collection includes more than 20,000 videos, more than 1,000 DVDs, and more than 3,000 spoken-word audio tapes. Holdings comprise over 500 German language films, including feature films, literary and dramatic adaptions, and documentary works. The feature collection includes more than 50 DDR films produced by the DEFA studios during the period 1950-1980.The center maintains an extensive website that includes listings and descriptions of the center's holdings, including their feature films, videos on German history, life, and culture, and German WWII propaganda films. The website also contains extensive bibliographies of books and journal articles related to German film.For further information regarding Media Resources Center collections or use policies, you may visit the center in person or submit a request by way of the center's online contact form.Digital CollectionsBerkeley’s library has assembled an extensive collection of German Studies materials in digital form, including complete editions of many major literary and historical figures such as Brecht, Kafka, Goethe, Schiller, and Luther, monumental sets such as the Monumenta Germaniae Historica, standard reference materials such as dictionaries, encyclopedias, indexes, and directories, links to international Internet sites providing scholarly information for German Studies, online newspapers and scholarly journals, and many other types of digital content. An overview of these materials can be seen at the Library’s Germanic Collections homepage.Librarian Jeremy Ott is currently in charge of the Germanic Collections. He is available to assist members of the Department of German with research questions and book orders. Please direct your purchase suggestions and questions to him or use the online purchase recommendation form.Departmental LibraryThe departmental library has a substantial collection of all major German writers and philosophers from the Middle Ages to the present. All authors on the PhD reading list are represented with their collected works and selected secondary literature. In addition, the departmental library boasts a sizable collection of books on Germanic linguistics, literary theory, cultural theory, and intellectual history.We also have sections for Yiddish literature, feminism, and multicultural studies as well as German history and politics, art history and architecture, and cinema. Of course, the library has the latest reference works, dictionaries, and bibliographies. In addition to this, the departmental library owns a video and dvd collection of all major German films.Periodicals include all journals of American German Studies (German Quarterly, Germanic Review, German Studies Review, Monatshefte, Colloquia Germanica), as well as such periodicals as Merkur, Neue Rundschau, Signs, PMLA, and Representations, among others. We carry such newspapers and magazines as Die Zeit, Spiegel, and Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. Comfortable chairs and free coffee provide an atmosphere conducive to browsing and reading.Advising, Registration, and InformationResearchCareerStudent ResourcesUndergraduate Studies OverviewOur German Undergraduate Program offers a wide selection of courses covering German-speaking culture from the Middle Ages to the present. The department provides classes in German and English on language, literature, linguistics, philosophy, history, and media.
Our students are challenged to gain fluency as well as cultural competency in the German language, read major works by renowned authors such as Kafka, Freud, and Nietzsche, learn about Medieval society, German Romanticism, Weimar cinema, the Nazi past, and multicultural Germany, and explore a variety of topics including Medieval epics, Storm and Stress poetry, Gothic novels, modern mass culture, critical theory, and migration.In keeping with the department’s overall mission of providing a solid liberal arts education, German language courses at Berkeley go beyond the teaching of grammar and vocabulary. Learning a foreign language involves learning new forms of expression that are also new ways of thinking. Central goals for the study of German language at Berkeley include the acquisition of communicative competencies, tools for interpretation, and critical awareness of both students’ own native culture(s) and "things foreign."Our students have ample opportunities to immerse themselves in the language by attending departmental events such as the weekly Kaffeeklatsch, Stammtisch, or Film Club, to study abroad, and to apply for awards.Our program, faculty, instructors, and staff encourage students to achieve their individual goals, whether those include pursuing a minor, major or double major, Honors, or general education. The German Undergraduate Program provides students with the language fluency, cultural knowledge, academic experience, and analytical skills necessary to attend graduate school, to enter the job market, and to be global citizens who are culturally aware and critical thinkers.Contact us:Nadia Samadi (Undergraduate Student Adviser)
Winfried Kudszus (Undergraduate Faculty Adviser)
Niko Euba (Language Program Coordinator) The Department of German is very supportive of students wishing to pursue a double major. Combining a German Major with a major in another program of study, like Business, Law, International Relations, Film Studies, or Comparative Literature, will give students a competitive advantage in today’s globalized job market. The College of Letters & Sciences allows a higher unit ceiling to double majors.The German Department tries to accommodate double majors to facilitate completing and managing the additional work. Students can enroll in upper-division German courses taught in English while they are starting to learn the language. The department also offers intensive language workshops during the summer that allow students to complete a whole year of German in only ten or fifteen weeks. Many classes offered by the department fulfill some of the college's breadth requirements, and half of the courses required for the major may be completed while studying abroad. Additionally, two courses taken in other departments can count toward the German major if those courses concern European topics.To declare a double major, fill out a double major packet from the College of Letters & Science. You will need to prepare a four-year plan and get signatures from both departments.Please consult Nadia Samadi (Undergraduate Student Adviser) if you are interested in pursuing a double major, when there are questions about these requirements, and for further information.The German Department offers a variety of courses that require no knowledge of the German language. If you do not know the language and are interested in learning more about German literature and culture, history and philosophy, or social sciences and international issues, please choose from the classes listed below. (Please note that not all courses are offered each semester; check the Schedule of Classes for details).Please search the Berkeley Academic Guide for German courses that fulfill breadth requirements.Please consult our departmental course listings and the university's Schedule of Classes or CalCentral for further information. Also check listings in Dutch and Yiddish for information about related breadth requirement courses.The German Department encourages all qualifying majors to write an Honors thesis. Ideally, students should start planning to apply to the Honors Program at the end of the junior year. The German Department admits to its Honors Program students who have at least a 3.5 GPA in all upper-division courses taken to fulfill the major requirements, and a 3.3 GPA overall.Within their senior year, students in the Honors Program are required to complete satisfactorily an Honors thesis under faculty supervision. It is the student's responsibility to ask a faculty member to supervise the thesis. The Honors thesis, which should be at least 35 pages in length, may grow out of any upper-division course, independent study, or directed research, and is evaluated with a letter grade.Typically, the work on the thesis is spread over two semesters. For the first semester, the student should enroll in the appropriate section of German 199: "Supervised Independent Study" for his or her thesis adviser (2 units; Pass/Fail). In the second semester, the student enrolls in German H196 (4 units (or 6 units in special circumstances and with the approval of the undergraduate adviser); letter grade). Those who have completed the thesis will graduate with Honors, High Honors, or Highest Honors in the Major.Please submit the application for the Honors Program to Nadia Samadi (Undergraduate Student Adviser) and consult with her for further information about these requirements.Funding for Undergraduate Research and Honors Thesis ProjectsThe Department of German and the university offer various opportunities and funding for undergraduate students of all levels who are interested in research, field-study, or creative projects. Please visit Undergraduate Research at Berkeley and Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships for more information and application forms.Prospective students for the Honors program should apply in their junior year to be eligible for summer research funding.The German Studies Major is designed to lead from the acquisition of competence in written and spoken German through an understanding of the language’s structure and history. The program’s goal is to provide students with a critical understanding of past and contemporary German-speaking society and culture. Students are also trained in advanced study and independent research.The department offers a variety of courses for the major. Listed below are the requirements for completing a German Studies Major, and a note about related courses outside of the major that may be taken in order to complete all of the requirements. The department’s policy is to maintain a balanced strength between language and literature.All courses counted toward the major must be taken for a letter grade, and a major GPA of 2.0 must be maintained. Students must fulfill the following requirements.Lower-Division RequirementsGerman 1, 2, 3, and 4 or equivalent. If the courses are taken at UC Berkeley, students have to complete each level before proceeding to the next one. Students who have prior knowledge of German but are uncertain as to the appropriate level of instruction they need to continue should contact German Language Program Coordinator Nikolaus Euba.Upper-Division RequirementsA minimum of ten upper-division courses totaling at least 30 units, at least five courses and 15 units of which must be taken at UC Berkeley. Students must take courses dealing with at least two different centuries, and core course requirements must be satisfied.The following courses are required:If a student has completed at least 15 upper-division units with a grade average of no less than "B," the student has the option to enroll in German 198/199 to study in a group or independently (this course may not be counted toward the 30-unit total).A major can be declared at any time, but this is usually done when a student is taking German 4. Students may also consider pursuing Honors, a double major, or a minor.Please consult Nadia Samadi (Undergraduate Student Adviser) when there are questions or doubts about these requirements, or for further information. Please also contact them if you are transferring from another institution and wish to declare the German major.The German Studies Minor is designed to provide proficiency in written and spoken German, as well as a thorough acquaintance with German-speaking culture, society, and history. Students are also trained in advanced study and independent research.The department offers a variety of courses for the minor. Listed below are the requirements for completing a German Studies Minor, and a note about related courses that may be taken in order to complete all of the requirements. The department’s policy is to maintain a balance between language and literature.All courses counted toward the minor must be taken for a letter grade. Students must fulfill the following requirements.Lower-Division RequirementsGerman 1, 2, 3, and 4 or equivalent. If these courses are taken at UC Berkeley, students must complete each level before proceeding to the next one. Students who have prior knowledge of German but are uncertain as to the appropriate level of instruction they need to continue should contact the German Language Program Coordinator, Nikolaus Euba.Upper-Division RequirementsA minimum of five upper-division courses totaling at least 15 units, at least three courses and nine units of which must be taken at Berkeley. Students must enroll in at least two courses in which knowledge of German is required. One of the five courses should deal with broader socio-cultural, historical issues. A letter grade of "C" or better is required for each upper-division course applied to the minor.The following courses are required:If a student has completed at least 15 upper-division units with a grade average of no less than "B," the student has the option to enroll in German 198/199 to study in a group or independently (this course may not be counted toward the 15-unit total).A minor does not need to be formally declared; yet during the last semester of a student’s minor program, the student must file a petition to declare the minor with the Undergraduate Adviser, Nadia Samadi. Students may also consider pursuing a major, Honors, or a double major.Please consult Nadia Samadi for further information before registering for courses to be applied to the minor, or when there are questions or doubts about these requirements.One of the great benefits of pursuing a degree in German is the option to study abroad.Students in the German Department have a variety of opportunities to study abroad: the Education Abroad Program (UCEAP), summer language courses in Berlin (FUBiS) and Munich, and several programs of the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD). The programs supported by Berkeley allow students to keep their financial aid and transfer their course credits from Germany.Scott McElhinney is our adviser for the German Study Abroad ProgramDear Student:Why Study in Germany? To learn all about this great nation and its fascinating culture--its history, music, intellectuals, scientists, sports, politics, reunification, environmentalism, food, beer, wine, etc. And of course, for its rich language and literature.While many Germans speak English, very few Americans know German well enough to carry on a conversation, let alone carry out serious academic pursuits. UCEAP gives you opportunities to do both. And what’s unique and helpful about studying abroad via UCEAP (UC’s very own program) is that all your financial aid goes with you, and your courses and grades transfer back automatically to your Cal transcript.Plus, Germany is one of the least expensive UCEAP programs in Western Europe and you can apply for scholarships to help you pay for it. So take a look at these brief descriptions of the various options in Germany and see which one fits your interests. Then go to the Berkeley Study Abroad website for all the details and an application checklist.The International Summer School at Free University in Berlin (Freie Universität Berlin) allows students with any level of German to enroll in two courses--either two language courses, two subject matter courses (mostly taught in English), or one of each. This option is open to sophomores through graduate students with a GPA of 2.8. The application deadline is in early February.Another summer option in Germany is UCEAP’s new "Engineering for Sustainability" program at the University of Applied Sciences in Munich. Take project-based engineering courses that include lab experiments and simulations and visits to global companies headquartered in Munich. Courses are geared toward mechanical, automotive, electrical, industrial, and environmental engineering, plus entrepreneurship and German language. Open to Juniors and Seniors, this option requires no prior German. 2.85 minimum GPA. Application deadline is in early January.Don’t know a word of German? Studied 1-3 semesters of German already? Then consider the Berlin European Studies (BEST) program at Free University in Berlin. You’ll focus on courses taught in English about Berlin, Germany, and the European Union, plus take a German language course as well. No prior German is required (and no more than German 3 is allowed). A GPA of 2.85 is required; sophomores through seniors may participate. You can live in a homestay or in a studio apartment in the same building with other UC or American students. Apply in early December for fall; early April for spring.So you’d like to do an old-fashioned junior year abroad in Germany? No problem! Semesters are available, too, and senior year works for many students as well. You can study at the Technical, Free, or Humboldt universities in Berlin.If you want to do this "immersion" option, you can either take up through German 4 by the end of the spring semester before you want to go with UCEAP for the year or fall semester, or you can take up through German 2 or 3 by the end of the spring semester before you want to go and participate in the Pre-Intensive Language Program (pre-ILP) in July in Berlin to learn the rest of second year German. Then you’ll be ready to enter the Intensive Language Program (ILP) that all participants must take before starting regular courses alongside the German students beginning in October.For spring semester, students need to complete at least German 3 by the end of the fall semester prior to departure, then attend a shorter pre-ILP in January in Berlin to complete German 4, then stay for the ILP that leads up to the beginning of regular courses in April.If you will have completed German 4 before departure, then you don’t need to participate in the pre-ILP; if you will have completed an upper division course taught in German, then you can skip the ILP as well. But you’re welcome to participate in the pre-ILP and/or ILP if you wish.At first, taking regular courses taught in German might seem daunting, but gradually your German skills will improve sufficiently for you to do well in your classes. Every year, many UC students accomplish this and by the end of the semester or year are quite proficient at a high academic level. You can do it, too! This can serve you well if you go on to graduate school and want to do research in German-speaking areas, or if you want to do business of any kind in Germany or other parts of the world.Spending a full year in Germany allows your German skills to develop to a very high degree, plus it enables you to get to know the country and culture more deeply. You’re more likely to make close friendships by staying for a year, as well.If you can’t participate for an entire year, it’s still possible to do half a year of regular coursework. Fall semester is problematic unless you are a graduating senior, because it continues on until March, so other students would encounter the problem of missing spring semester back at Cal. The spring semester would be a better option for students who don’t want to miss two semesters here.All fall and year immersion options have an early January application deadline. All spring options have an early April application deadline.For all of these immersion options, junior status (56 units including AP) and a GPA of 2.85 overall and in your German language courses are required.Like most students, you’ll probably live in a WG (Wohngemeinschaft), which is an apartment shared with German students. That way you can practice the German you will have worked so hard to learn.So no matter what your class level, language level, or major, you’ll find a UCEAP option that can help you to get first-hand experience in Germany. What are you waiting for? Just click onto the UCEAP website to see photos, read student comments, and to get additional information. Go for it!Please contact me for all questions about UC’s Education Abroad Program.-Scott McElhinney, UC Berkeley Study Abroad Adviser for GermanyThe Education Abroad Program at UC Berkeley (UCEAP) offers students the opportunity to study abroad while keeping their financial aid and being able to automatically transfer their courses and grades back to Berkeley. Studying in Germany is one of the least expensive UCEAP programs in Western Europe, and students can apply for additional scholarships.Students can choose to study abroad for a full year, for just one semester (spring semester being the better option), or during the summer. This letter from German Study Abroad Program Adviser Scott McElhinney provides more information about UCEAP. Please also check the Berkeley Study Abroad website for all the details and an application checklist. Contact Scott McElhinney if you have further questions.Studying Abroad for a Semester or a Full YearIf you are interested in studying a full semester in Germany, consider the Berlin European Studies Program (BEST) at the Freie Universität Berlin. The program offers courses taught in English about Germany and the European Union, and no prior German is required (no competency higher than German 3 is allowed). Applications are due in early December for fall and early April for spring.Studying a semester or year abroad in Germany is also possible outside of the BEST program  at Freie Universität Berlin, as well as at Technische Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin. All fall and year-long immersion options have an early January application deadline. All spring options have an early April application deadline. For all of these immersion options, junior status (56 units including AP) and a GPA of 2.85 overall and in German language courses are required.Studying Abroad during the SummerThe UCEAP/FUBiS program at the Freie Universität International Summer University in Berlin allows students with any level of German (from none to advanced) to enroll in one or two language and subject matter courses. For more information, please see the FUBiS and UCEAP websites. This option is open to sophomores through graduate students with a GPA of 2.8. The application deadline is in early February.Students attending FUBiS individually or through UCEAP are eligible to apply for a Max Kade Travel Stipend of $1000 in support of their travel, made possible by generous support from the Max Kade Foundation. Applications are due to Nadia Samadi (Undergraduate Services) at the end of February each year. Please contact Nadia for the application form.Another summer study abroad option in Germany is UCEAP’s Engineering for Sustainability Program at the University of Applied Sciences in Munich. Students take project-based engineering courses that include lab experiments and simulations, and participants visit global companies headquartered in Munich. Courses are geared toward mechanical, automotive, electrical, industrial, and environmental engineering, as well as entrepreneurship and German language. Open to juniors and seniors, this option requires no prior German. Interested students should have a minimum 2.85 GPA. The application deadline is in early January.Followed by discussion.  ...read moreFollowed by discussion.  ...read morePaul Dobryden published “Good Germans, Humane Automobiles: Redeeming Technological Modernity—In Those Days” in Film and History 40.1 (Spring 2010).Irmengard Rauch and co-authors Julisa Edwards, Justin Farwell, Carolyn Hawkshaw, MaryEllen LeBlanc, Chris Little, Stephanie Peltner, Tim Price, Michael St. Clair, Peter Woods published “BAG XI: Toward Human:Canine Communication” in “The Interdisciplinary Journal for Germanic Linguistics and Semiotic Analysis” vol. 16,2 (2011), pages 203-254.The department has an outstanding placement record. Over the last decade, PhDs in German accepted tenure-track or long-term positions at the following institutions: The University of Arizona, Brigham Young University, Georgetown University, University of Illinois at Chicago, Southern Illinois University, Indiana University/Purdue University, University of Maryland, McGill University in Montreal, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Ohio State University, University of Rochester, University of Virginia, University of Washington at Seattle, and Washington University in St. Louis.The department is committed to helping students secure appointments in academia. This effort includes a workshop on all aspects of the academic job market early in each fall semester, reviewing of curriculum vitae and letters of application, mock interviews, and follow-up advising.Placements by Year (since 2010)2015-16Born, Erik [Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Society for the Humanities, Cornell University]
Dobryden, Paul [Asst. Prof., University of Virginia]
Ellis, Robin [Visiting Asst. Prof. Davidson College]
Mušanović, Emina [Asst. Prof., Linfield College]2014-15Allred, Mason [Historian and Editor, The Joseph Smith Papers]
Dickinson, Kristin [Asst. Prof., University of Michigan]
Gordon, Kevin A. [Instructional Designer, UCLA Extension]2013-14Almog, Yael [Asst. Prof., Center of Literary and Cultural Research in Berlin (ZfL)]
Etzler, Melissa [Instructor, Butler University]
Manthripragada, Ashwin [Visiting Asst. Prof., Hobart and William Smith Colleges]2012-13Beals, Kurt [Asst. Prof., Washington University in St. Louis]
Haubenreich, Jacob [Asst. Prof., Southern Illinois University]
Kooiker, Jason [Lecturer, Stanford Language Center]2011-12Dewey, Tonya [Asst. Prof., University of Minnesota, Morris]
Kolar, Meredith [Lecturer, University of Zürich]
Layne, Priscilla [Asst. Prof., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill]
Price, Timothy [Research Fellow, University Frankfurt, Germany]
St. Clair, Michael [Lecturer, UC Berkeley]2010-11Gramling, David [Asst. Prof., The University of Arizona]
Trop, Gabriel [Asst. Prof., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill] The following  is a list of current positions of graduates:Ames, Eric [Prof., University of Washington]
Ascárate, Richard [Visiting Asst. Prof., George Washington University]
Augustyn, Prisca [Prof., Florida Atlantic University]
Baackmann, Susanne [Assoc. Prof., University of New Mexico]
Berman, Nina [ Prof., Ohio State University]
Blumberg, David [Chair of Department of World Languages, Campolindo High School, Moraga, CA]
Byram, Katra [Asst. Prof., Ohio State University]
Clarke, Robert [Teaching Fellow, UC Berkeley]
Cleek, John [Lecturer, UC Berkeley]
Coffey, Michael [Lecturer, UC Berkeley]
Collier Sy-Quia, Hilary [Ermitage International School France]
Cowan, Michael [Reader, University of St. Andrews]
Cudahy, Mary [Asst. Prof., Southern Illinois University, Carbondale]
Erlin, Matthew [Prof., Washington University, St. Louis]
Hall, Sara [Assoc. Prof., University of Illinois, Chicago]
Harjes, Kirsten [Lecturer, UC Davis]
Howell, Tess [Adjunct Prof. Southern Methodist University]
Huffmaster, Michael [Assistant Professor at the Universidad de Puerto Rico — Mayagüez]
Hwang, June [Assoc. Prof., University of Rochester]
Isenberg, Noah [Prof., The New School Eugene Lang College]
Kapczynski, Jennifer [Assoc. Prof., Washington University]
Kopp, Kristin [Assoc. Prof., University of Missouri]
Koser, Julie [Assoc. Prof., University of Maryland]
Kosta, Barbara [Assoc. Prof., The University of Arizona]
Lagrone, Emily Banwell [Freelance Translator, Oakland, CA]
McFarland, Robert [Assoc. Prof., Brigham Young]
McCormick, Richard [Professor, University of Minnesota]
Nenno, Nancy [Assoc. Prof., College of Charleston]
Reitter, Paul [Prof., Ohio State University]
Roberts, Lee [Assoc. Prof., Indiana University/Purdue University]
Roberts, Suin [Assoc. Prof., Indiana University/Purdue University at Fort Wayne]
Sakalauskaite, Aida [Instructor, College of Alameda]
Starkey, Kathryn [Prof., Stanford University]
Toth, Gergely [Assoc. Instructor, University of Utah]
Warner, Chantelle [Assoc. Prof., The University of Arizona]
Wellmon, Chad [Assoc. Prof., University of Virginia]
Whitt, Jason [Research Fellow, University of Nottingham]
Wiliarty, Kevin [Academic Technology Coordinator., Wesleyan University]
Yamini-Hamedani, Azadeh [Asst. Prof., Simon Fraser University, Canada]Last updated on 05/17/2016.  ...read moreIn the 17th-century, the Thirty Years' War and wars with the Turks, recurring at multiple fronts across Eastern and Central Europe, were formative forces. Military battles went along with the drawing of ideological and confessional boundaries, which continue to take effect in today's Europe. Against this backdrop, the seminar aims  ...read moreIn the 17th-century, the Thirty Years' War and wars with the Turks, recurring at multiple fronts across Eastern and Central Europe, were formative forces. Military battles went along with the drawing of ideological and confessional boundaries, which continue to take effect in today's Europe. Against this backdrop, the seminar aims  ...read moreIn the 17th-century, the Thirty Years' War and wars with the Turks, recurring at multiple fronts across Eastern and Central Europe, were formative forces. Military battles went along with the drawing of ideological and confessional boundaries, which continue to take effect in today's Europe. Against this backdrop, the seminar aims  ...read moreIn the 17th-century, the Thirty Years' War and wars with the Turks, recurring at multiple fronts across Eastern and Central Europe, were formative forces. Military battles went along with the drawing of ideological and confessional boundaries, which continue to take effect in today's Europe. Against this backdrop, the seminar aims  ...read moreIn the 17th-century, the Thirty Years' War and wars with the Turks, recurring at multiple fronts across Eastern and Central Europe, were formative forces. Military battles went along with the drawing of ideological and confessional boundaries, which continue to take effect in today's Europe. Against this backdrop, the seminar aims  ...read moreCOURSE DESCRIPTIONS- SPRING 2018Language Courses:German 1 (5) Elementary German I. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet two or five times a week. All four foreign language skills (reading, writing, speaking, and listening) are addressed to help students acquire communicative competence in the German language while being sensitized to the links between language and culture. German 1 is for students with no prior knowledge of German.German 2 (5) Elementary German II. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet five times a week. In German 2, students will continue to develop communicative competence in the German language and expand their sensitivity toward the relationship between language and culture. While all language skills will be addressed, additional emphasis will be on the various styles of written and spoken German. Prerequisite: German 1 or equivalent.German 3 (5) Intermediate German I. Topics in German Language and Cultural History. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet five times a week. While continuing to expand students’ communicative competence in German, this content-driven course will provide insights into postwar German history and cultural trends. The primary focus will be on the development of literacy skills (critical reading and writing), vocabulary expansion, and a thorough review of structural concepts. Students will be guided toward expressing themselves on more abstract topics, such as language and power in society, multiculturalism, rebellion and protest, and social justice, and toward drawing connections between texts and contexts by using a variety of text genres (journalistic, historical, short story, poetry, drama, advertising, film).German 4 (5) Intermediate German II. Topics in German Language and Culture. Euba in charge.
Fall/Spring. Five units; classes meet five times a week. In this fourth-semester German language course, students work on strengthening their interpretative abilities as well as their written and oral forms of expression. While continuing the development of communicative competence and literacy skills, students will discuss a variety of texts and films and try to find innovative ways in which to engage with familiar presuppositions about who we are, about what determines our values and actions, and about the function and power of language.German R5B- Reading and Composition Courses (4 units):
Readings and discussions in English. Fulfills the second half of the university’s Reading & Composition Requirement (equivalent to English 1B, Comp. Lit. 1B, etc.).

German R5B Section 1: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 2: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 3: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 4: Staff
TBAGerman R5B Section 5: Staff
TBACourses Taught in German:German 100 (3) Introduction to Reading Culture. Dewulf
This course is intended to acquaint students with selected works from German cultural history and to familiarize them with various methods of interpretation and analysis. Required for all German majors. Fulfills the Letters & Science requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 101 (3) Advanced German Conversation, Composition, and Style. Staff
Focusing on five central themes, this advanced-level language course will help students improve and expand on spoken and written language functions utilizing a variety of works from different genres in journalism, broadcasting, literature, fine arts, and cinema. The final goal is to enable students to participate in the academic discourse (written and spoken) to a linguistic and stylistic level appropriate for advanced students of German in upper division courses. Fulfills the Letters & Science breadth requirement in Arts and Literature or International Studies. Taught in German. Students with native fluency in German are not eligible to enroll. Prerequisite: German 4.German 102A (3) Advanced Language Practice: German Performance. N. Euba
The analysis, discussion, adaptation and public performance of primarily poetic texts will advance students' language and interpersonal competencies while providing unique access to a significant dimension of German popular culture as well as innovative approaches to reading and interpreting poetry. Students enrolled need to be available for some  afternoon/evening performances April 18 through 21, 2018.German 103 (3) Introduction to German Linguistics. T. Shannon
This course is designed to provide students with an overview of the major subfields of linguistics as they apply to the German language. It also serves as the gateway course for the further study of German linguistics at the undergraduate level. The first part of the course will focus on the synchronic description of contemporary German. The second part of the course will concern itself with variation in German. There are no prerequisites for this class and no prior experience with linguistics is presupposed. However, an advanced knowledge of German (at least German 4 level) is expected.German 108 (3) Literary Translation. W. Kudszus
Our focus will be the practice and theory of literary translation, primarily from German to English. Following their particular interests, participants will choose a text or a constellation of texts for their individual semester projects. These projects will be introduced in an oral presentation (20-25 minutes) and develop into a semester paper, which typically will involve the translation of a text and reflections on your own translational stance.German 152 (3) Modern Literature. W. Kudszus
Some of the most influential and thought-provoking literary works of the wider 20th century will be among our readings, including texts by Friedrich Nietzsche, Sigmund Freud, Rainer Maria Rilke, Franz Kafka, Else Lasker-Schüler, Elfriede Jelinek, and Herta Müller. In light of these texts, we will explore questions of identity, madness, and creativity. Readings in German. Lectures in German and English. Discussions and course work in English and/or German.Courses Taught in English:German 24 (1) Freshman Seminar. K. Feldman
"Germany Today".  This FSS will introduce students to the country of Germany--its political system, social issues, and significant cultural elements. We will discuss political parties, the election system, Angela Merkel, Turkish-German and migration issues, arts and literature, and more. No knowledge of the German language is required for this course.German C25 (4)- Max, Nietzsche, Freud. K. Feldman
We will explore the ways in which Marx, Nietzsche, and Freud--three of the most important thinkers in modern Western thought--can be read as responding to the Enlightenment and its notions of reason and progress. We will consider how each remakes a scientific understanding of truth, knowledge, and subjectivity, such that rationality, logic, and the powers of human cognition are shown to be distorted, limited, and subject to forces outside our individual control. All lectures and readings in English.German 160B (4) Fascism and Propaganda. I. Richter
This course will explore methods, effects and the history of propaganda using the example of National Socialism (1933-1945) and will focus on the relationship between politics, propaganda and public opinion. It will highlight practices of persuasion and manipulation and attempts to shape perceptions, and direct behavior to achieve responses intended by the National Socialists. We will discuss the role that propaganda played in the National Socialists’ rise to power. Central institutions, organizational structures and actors will be introduced as well as practices and media such as films, newspapers, posters, exhibitions, photos, commemoration days and speeches. Besides the methods and intended effects, we will also explore sources which provide insights into reactions of the public to the major themes and into the reception of campaigns by the State.Graduate Courses:German 201D (4) 19th Century. C. Tang
This course studies the main literary forms and aesthetic paradigms between two epochal thresholds - “around 1800” and “around 1900”. We will read exemplary nineteenth-century texts in light of current scholarship. Authors include Novalis, Kleist, Goethe, Büchner, Heine, Grillparzer, Sacher-Masoch, Wagner, Stifter, Raabe, and Hofmannsthal.German 214 (4) Room Share with Critical Theory (TBA) Studies in the 20th Century. D. Gokturk
"Media, Ecology, Migration". This seminar will read theories of old and new media through the lens of two conceptual frameworks environmental criticism and migration studies. Tracing the effects of movement and stillness, interaction and connectivity from early cinema to social media and new forms of data visualizations, participants will develop their own research projects and methodologies by relating questions arising from theory to practice. Drawing on seminal literary and theoretical readings as well as film and multimedia examples, the seminar will test methodologies of critical digital humanities and urban studies, probing interfaces between social sciences and the humanities.  NOTE: This class also meets on Thursday from
1-3pm in 282 Dwinelle Hall for film screenings!German 256/Comp. Lit. 250 (4) Problems in Literary Theory. N. Largier
"Imagination, Fantasy, 'Einbildungskraft'". In this seminar we will discuss the significance of the notions and concepts of the imagination in philosophical and literary traditions. We will start with a discussion of basic texts by Plato and Aristotle; move on to the treatment of the imagination in classical rhetoric; and focus on four key areas where imagination, fantasy, and 'Einbildungskraft' play a significant role: the so-called mystical tradition up to Jacob Böhme; Baroque cultures of the imagination; poetic imagination in the 18th and 19th centuries; and 20th century philosophical approaches. The reading list will include texts by Plato, Aristotle, Quintilian, Ignatius of Loyola, Lohenstein, Böhme, Malebranche, Kant, Addison, Goethe, Moritz, Flaubert, Sartre, and Foucault.German 263C (4) Poetry and Thought. K. Feldman
This graduate seminar will investigate various disputes at the intersection of philosophy and literary theory that arose with respect to poetry and particular poems. We will begin with a short look at 18th-century disputes between Gottsched and Bodmer/Breitinger; and an examination of the convergence of philosophical and poetic thought in Hölderlin, Schelling and Hegel. Turning to the 20th century, we will look at an exchange between Heidegger, Emil Staiger and Leo Spitzer concerning Mörike's "Auf eine Lampe"; at serial analyses of later works of Hölderlin by Heidegger, Adorno and de Man.German 276 (4) Old High German. I. Rauch
Reading of poetic and prose texts in Old High German; passages selected to represent a broad scope of chronology, geography, and genre in eighth- to eleventh-century German. Cultural dynamics of the Old High German period. The synchronic and diachronic study of phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics; linguistic method. Particular emphasis is placed on the structure of the several principal dialects of Old High German. No prerequisites.German 280 (4) North Sea Germanic. T. Shannon
Readings and discussion of poetic and prose texts in the Ingwaeonic languages (broadly construed) not covered elsewhere: Old Low Franconian, Middle Dutch, Old Frisian, Middle Low German.Dutch Courses:Dutch 1 (5) Elementary Dutch. I. Van Der Hoeven
In this beginner’s course, students will familiarize themselves with the basics of Dutch: sounds and spelling, vocabulary, and grammar. Weekly themes form the basis of in-class conversations and write-ups. By the end of the semester, students will be able to express themselves in speaking and in writing about a variety of topics, including introducing yourself, time, living, studying, traveling, and talking about present and past situations.Dutch 2 (5) Elementary Dutch. I. Van Der Hoeven
Dutch language course for beginners expanding on Dutch 1. The focus of the course is on acquiring basic communicative competence in the language. That is, developing the ability to appropriately use the language (spoken as well as written) in authentic situations.Dutch 100 (3) Dutch for Reading and Translation Knowledge. I. Van Der Hoeven
This is a two-track course, designed for 1) research scholars/graduate students who need to learn how to translate Dutch texts in their area of expertise, and 2) Dutch Studies majors and minors who are interested in the professional field of translation (Dutch to English). While some knowledge of Dutch and/or German is required, a Dutch 1 class prior to this class is a prerequisite.Dutch C164  (4) The Indonesian Connection.  J. Dewulf
Literature and Film about the Dutch colonial history of Indonesia. Taught in English.Yiddish Courses:Yiddish 102 (5) Intermediate Yiddish. Y. Chaver
Further intensive study of Yiddish for advanced students, building on the foundation established in Yiddish 101; or equivalent knowledge.  Advanced grammar and introduction to reading original texts as well as aspects of Yiddish culture. Intensive German Courses in the Summer
Embark on an exciting summer journey: Learning German will open up astonishing new cultural vistas, enable you to communicate with 120 million people in several European countries, and expose you to the world of great thinkers such as Nietzsche, Kafka, and Freud. Among the multiple personal, academic, and professional benefits of a foreign language-learning experience is the fact that graduate and law schools in the US are keen on admitting students with advanced knowledge of a foreign language. UC Berkeley offers a variety of German courses and intensive workshops on the Berkeley campus and a workshop for beginners in Berlin. Summer Abroad in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg
"Introduce yourself to the cultural and political identity of the Low Countries: the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, three contrasting monarchies in the heart of Europe. The course begins in Amsterdam, the world’s most liberal city, from where we explore the Netherlands. After spending two weeks in the Netherlands, we travel to Europe’s capital Brussels, where we join the celebrations of Belgium’s Independence Day. From Brussels, we continue to Luxembourg, one of the smallest but most international countries in Europe. We then move to Flanders, Belgium’s Dutch-speaking region, where we first stay in the city of Ostend, beautifully located at the North Sea coast. We end our course in Louvain, one of Europe’s oldest university towns founded in the Middle Ages. On our way, we trace important cultural, historical and political developments in European history and culture from medieval Flanders, the Dutch Golden Age, World War I and II up to the contemporary multilingual, social and European identity of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg as founding members of the European Union. Daily fieldtrips take us to The Hague, Utrecht, Bruges, Antwerp, Ghent, Ypres, Bastogne, the Frisian Islands, Cassel in French Flanders and many other places. Guided visits to the Dutch House of Representatives and the European Parliament in Brussels are also included." For more information, please see Berkeley's study abroad website for the Netherlands.
Tara Hottman will be in Berlin next year through a fellowship with the Berlin Program for Advanced German and European Studies working on her project "The Past as Utopia: Alexander Kluge and the Archive".Keighley McFarland and Katja Minitenko, two of our German Majors, received undergraduate merit scholarships from the Institute of International Studies and were accepted as members of the IIS Junior Scholars Program for Spring 2011.