http://spanish-portuguese.berkeley.edu/courses/advanced-grammar-and-composition/ /n






				MWF 9-10A, VLSB 2062 | 
			
				Instructor: Robertson				| CCN: 21313 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Span 25Este curso está diseñado para facilitarte el desarrollo de las herramientas necesarias para mejorar tu escritura formal y enfrentar con éxito los requisitos académicos y profesionales. Practicarás la lectura crítica de textos escritos y otros formatos; aprenderás a identificar y superar tus debilidades gramaticales, y avanzarás en tu composición analizando tu trabajo escrito y el de tus compañeros. El curso pondrá énfasis en la escritura de investigación (exposición y argumentación), y en los pasos preliminares de la narración y la descripción. Los textos y el material visual de este curso apoyarán el desarrollo de tu pensamiento crítico y te estimularán a establecer conexiones con los contextos históricos y culturales en los que fueron creados. Te ayudarán también a reflexionar sobre tu propia percepción y tus motivaciones para escribir. Para el final del semestre obtendrás una base sólida de estrategias discursivas y comprensión cultural que te permitirán escribir ensayos bien organizados y claramente apoyados por la evidencia que escogiste, expresando tus ideas en forma efectiva en español.En Español 102A pondrás en práctica los conocimientos adquiridos y los contenidos trabajados en los cursos de lengua y Español 25. Por tal motivo este curso no tiene como objetivo la re-enseñanza de aspectos gramaticales de cursos previos, sino que los reforzará aplicando la gramática a la escritura, discusiones y presentaciones orales.Todo estudiante que desee tener éxito deberá trabajar constantemente en la revisión de su propia escritura (redacción y gramática), asistir y participar activamente en clase y completar todas las tareas asignadas en el tiempo indicado.
				Th 3-6P, BARROWS 129 | 
			
				Instructor: Del Valle				| CCN: 21280 Units: 4
This course provides an overview of canonical literature from Spain and Latin America from the colonial period to the present. It helps students who are preparing to take the second year examination and it’s also a good option for advanced undergraduates who are considering pursuing graduate studies in literature.
				MWF 10-11A, DWINELLE B-3 | 
			
				Instructor: Barili				| CCN: 20971 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Span 25En este curso exploraremos el interés de Borges por el Budismo desde su niñez en Argentina y su adolescencia en la Europa de la Primera Guerra Mundial hasta su madurez, pasando por sus famosos cuentos de Ficciones, poemas y ensayos, conferencias y entrevistas a lo largo de su vida, y su libro ¿Qué es el Budismo?. Para comprender más profundamente las multiples manifestaciones de esta influencia en la obra de Borges y su particular manera de interpretar el Budismo, estudiaremos los principios básicos de esta filosofía. Discutiremos también los descubrimientos más recientes de la Ciencia Cognitiva– y sus conecciones con el Budismo– para ver cómo Borges anticipa estos descubrimientos con su radical cuestionamiento de categorías fundamentales del pensamiento occidental al explorar nociones del ser, la realidad, la mente, el conocimiento, el tiempo y el espacio, desde perspectivas budistas. Tópicos relacionados a estas perspectivas, que exploraremos en el curso, son “la unidad de todos los seres”, “el entretejer de karmas”, “la vida como sueño”, “la nadería de la personalidad”, “el tiempo circular”, etc. Como Borges mismo señaló refiriéndose al Budismo, ésta es una filosofía y disciplina basada en la práctica personal: “no se trata de comprender (el Budismo); se trata de sentirlo de un modo hondo, de sentirlo en cuerpo y alma”. La Ciencia Cognitiva, por su parte, también insiste en la importancia del conocimiento que es procesado a través del cuerpo: “embodied learning”. Por esta razón, complementaremos nuestras discusiones académicas con “mini labs” de experiencia y aplicación de la principal metodología budista: la meditación. Comenzaremos nuestras clases con prácticas mentales de calmar la mente y enfocar la atención, y exploraremos sus resultados en nuestras indagaciones intelectuales y creativas. Al principio de cada clase, y antes de nuestras exploraciones sobre lo que hemos leido, haremos breves prácticas de enfocar la mente. Este componente es parte integral del curso. Te recomiendo que llegues a tiempo a la clase para no distraer a tus compañeros y beneficiarte plenamente de esta práctica. Una vez que te hayas familiarizado con maneras de acceder a la contemplación y meditación, puedes practicarla en cualquier momento que la necesites o que quieras cultivarla. Recomiendo que explores los resultados que encuentras practicando unos minutos cada día antes de estudiar y de escribir comentarios o ensayos para cualquiera de tus clases.
				MWF 1-2P, TBA | 
			
				Instructor: Redondo Campillos				| CCN: 13201 Units: 4
This course has been specially designed for students who have taken Catalan 101, with special regard to graduate students who need Catalan language as a tool for their research. Graduate and undergraduate students with high proficiency in any Romance language and interested in Iberian studies are encouraged to take Catalan 102 too.Language will be approached through its different skills, and students will develop their reading and audiovisual strategies in order to comprehend more complex materials -especially Catalan literature, films, and music. Catalan culture will have a relevant role in this course.
				TuTh 11A-12:30P, DWINELLE 205 | 
			
				Instructor: Dominguez				| CCN: 46254 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Spanish 25Discover the great tradition of the short story in modern Latin American literature. A wide range of stories will be available to read, analyze and debate, drawing on modern and contemporary writers. Students will be encouraged to investigate the internal structure of the genre through critical and theoretical essays—many of them written by the authors themselves. Readings will include works by Jorge Luis Borges, Julio Cortázar, Augusto Monterroso, Silvina Ocampo, Elena Garro, Horacio Quiroga, Juan Rulfo and Guillermo Cabrera Infante.
				MWF 10-11A, DWINELLE 130 | 
			
				Instructor: Carvalho Pinheiro				| CCN: 19885 Units: 4
What is Saudade?Saudade is one of the most time-honored and fascinating cultural notions still present in Portuguese-speaking societies. How then does it manifest in contemporary artistic expressions, including music, literature, film, painting, music, and architecture. The seductive voice of Brazilian musician João Gilberto, the irresistible rhythms of Cape’s Verde gran diva Cesária Évora, the compelling cinematic images of Brazilian director Eduardo Coutinho, the vibrant paintings of Mozambican artist José Pádua, the humor-laced prose of the Portuguese writer Miguel Esteves Cardoso, and the celebrated Portuguese fado singer Mariza are some of the living clues that will guide us to a fuller understanding of Saudade. This course offers students a unique hands-on opportunity to explore Saudade as a multinational phenomenon through which to discover other cultures.This course will be taught in Portuguese. 
				MTWTF, Location Varies | 
			
				Instructor: Refer to the Schedule of Classes Units: 5
Spanish 1 aims to develop basic communicative language skills to prepare students to take higher-level Spanish courses. In this course, students will gain oral and written language proficiency following a communicative language learning approach. Students will develop understanding and appreciation of the Hispanic culture and learn and practice basic tenses and linguistic structures (daily routine, likes and dislikes, present and future tenses, etc.). Grammar is not taught explicitly in the classroom; instead students are expected to study the material beforehand and practice it in class.  Students will learn Spanish through a variety of activities such as reading, listening, writing, and speaking in contextualized situations that will give them the opportunity to use the language to complete different tasks. Class time is to be used primarily for oral communication and practice, for this reason, the class will be conducted entirely in Spanish.This course is appropriate for students with no previous Spanish courses or up to 2 years of high school Spanish. Spanish 1 is not open to students that learned or speak Spanish with family.* This class requires ten outside hours of preparation each week in addition to five weekly in- class hours. If you do not have enough time to devote to this class, plan to take it at another time.EARLY DROP DEADLINE (END OF 2ND WEEK) APPLIES. Attendance is mandatory for the first two weeks of class. Any student who is not there when roll is taken will be dropped from the class. Refer to the Online Schedule of Classes for available Spanish 1 sections.
				MTWTF, Location Varies | 
			
				Instructor: Refer to the Schedule of Classes Units: 5
Spanish 2 aims to develop language proficiency beyond the level attained in Spanish 1 to prepare students to take higher-level Spanish courses. In this course, students will gain oral and written language proficiency following a communicative language learning approach. Students will learn and practice a variety of verb tenses and linguistic structures (subjunctive, commands, past tenses, etc.) and develop understanding and appreciation of the Hispanic culture. Grammar is not taught explicitly in the classroom; instead, students are expected to study the material beforehand and practice it in class.  Students will learn Spanish through a variety of activities such as reading, listening, writing, and speaking in contextualized situations that will give them the opportunity to use the language to complete different tasks. Class time is to be used primarily for oral communication and practice, for this reason, the class will be conducted entirely in Spanish.This course is appropriate for students with 3 years of high school Spanish. Spanish 2 is not open to students that learned or speak Spanish with family.* This class requires ten outside hours of preparation each week in addition to five weekly in- class hours. If you do not have enough time to devote to this class, plan to take it at another time.EARLY DROP DEADLINE (END OF 2ND WEEK) APPLIES. Attendance is mandatory for the first two weeks of class. Any student who is not there when roll is taken will be dropped from the class. Refer to the Online Schedule of Classes for available Spanish 2 sections.
				MTWTF, Location Varies | 
			
				Instructor: Refer to Schedule of Classes Units: 5
The primary goal of Spanish 3 is the development of written and oral skills beyond the basic level attained in Spanish 2 in order to fully prepare you for the requirements of higher-level Spanish courses. In beginning-intermediate Spanish you will gain and deepen your formal knowledge of grammatical structures and increase your vocabulary, so that you are able to communicate orally and in writing at a more sophisticated and abstract level. In addition, you will increase your ability to understand and read critically by summarizing and analyzing both literary and non-literary prose. Grammar is not taught explicitly in the classroom; instead, students are expected to study the grammar topics beforehand and use them in class discussions and activities.  Students will develop their language proficiency through a variety of activities such as reading, listening, writing, and speaking in contextualized situations that will give them the opportunity to use the language to describe, compare, analyze and summarize, information. Class time is to be used primarily for oral and written communication, for this reason, the class will be conducted entirely in Spanish.This course is appropriate for students with 4 years of high school Spanish. Spanish 3 is not open to students that learned or speak Spanish with family.Please note: This class requires the outside hours of preparation each week (in addition to the five weekly in-class hours). If you do not anticipate having ten outside hours to devote to this class this semester, plan to take it at another time.EARLY DROP DEADLINE (END OF 2ND WEEK) APPLIES. Attendance is mandatory for the first two weeks of class. Any student who is not there when roll is taken will be dropped from the class.Refer to the Online Schedule of Classes for available Spanish 3 sections.
				MW 11A-12P, DWINELLE B-4 | 
			
				Instructor: Navarrete				| CCN: 46083 Units: 1
  
				Tu 1-2P, BARROWS 180 | 
			
				Instructor: Slater				| CCN: 19514 Units: 1 (P/NP)
An Introduction to Brazil – no Portuguese required. (1 unit; P/NP)The seminar offers an introduction to Brazil through its arts and literature. It includes a rapid overview of Brazilian history and some of the things that make Brazil different from other countries in Latin America. We will look above all at the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and some of the dramatic changes taking place within Brazil today.The course includes two Brazilian arts events.
				W 3-6P, BARROWS 180 | 
			
				Instructor: Brizuela				| CCN: 22443 Units: 4
En este seminario estudiaremos las producciones estéticas Latinoamericanas (literatura, cine, arte) del período los años 50 y el momento presente dentro del marco de los proyectos e ideales de modernización y progreso por un lado, y la exacerbada precarización por el otro. Aunque, como veremos, la precarización ya era visible y palpable en los años 50 y 60, aquellas décadas estuvieron también llenas de promesas de mejoría (vía el progreso o la revolución) a las que apoyaron grandes sectores de las poblaciones latinoamericanas. El punto extremo de precarización hoy, resultado de décadas de políticas neoliberales y de fallidas propuestas tanto populistas como socialistas, lleva a plantearse la búsqueda de nuevas formas políticas, sociales y estéticas para el presente y para el futuro por venir.  Nos preguntaremos qué lugar y rol cumplió y cumple la estética en estos escenarios, al estudiar las manifestaciones y corrientes más importantes de la época de América Latina.
				MWF 12-1P, BARROWS 175 | 
			
				Instructor: Iarocci				| CCN: 46255 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Span 25This course is designed to provide students with a broad overview of the cultural history of modern Spain (18th-21st centuries). We will examine the major political, economic, social and artistic trends (art, architecture, literature and film) that have characterized modern Spanish culture. The course will also serve as an introduction to the discipline of Cultural Studies. By the end of the course, students should have a solid understanding of the history of modern Spanish culture as well as a broad set of critical frameworks for thinking about, discussing and analyzing cultural production Spanish.
				MWF 9-10A, BARROWS 54 | 
			
				Instructor: Macedo				| CCN: 22235 Units: 4
This course will look into the depictions of public transportation in Brazil as a framework to discuss the main aspects of the cultural representation of the people throughout the Twentieth Century. In a survey that includes major literary works, old and recent songs, and visual art, we will focus on questions of race, class, and power at stake among those using different transportation services, from the streetcar to the metro, from the slave ship to the urban bus. Particular attention will be given to the relationship between public transportation and violence, as well as the role of temporary communities in shaping citizenship, prompting riots and realizing human rights. A working knowledge of Portuguese is required.
				MWF 12-1P, DWINELLE 206 | 
			
				Instructor: Carvalho Pinheiro				| CCN: 46642 Units: 3
Experiencing the 60’s: an introduction to the Portuguese-speaking CulturesThis course offers an overview of contemporary Portuguese-Speaking Cultures and Literatures. The time frame covered by the course is from the sixties–years of rupture and experimentalism in artistic and cultural production—to the present. Students will study the concrete poetry of the Portuguese author Ana Hatherly, the visual (“Concrete”) poems of the Brazilian author Haroldo de Campos, and the drawings of the Swiss-Brazilian artist Maria Schendel. In addition, the course content will include among others the multi-layered music of the Angolan duet Ouro Negro and the political essays of Cape Verdean academic Amílcar Cabral. Themes such as colonization, decolonization, freedom, will be among the larger, decidedly compelling group of subjects on which the course will touch.The course will be taught in English and all required texts will be available in English.
				MWF 1-2P, BARROWS 110 | 
			
				Instructor: Davidson				| CCN: 21186 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Spanish 25Taught in Spanish, this course serves as an introduction to the formal linguistic analysis of the Spanish language. It surveys key areas of the field of Spanish Linguistics, including Phonology and Phonetics, Morphology, and Syntax. Additional topics (Historical Linguistics, Semantics, Psycholinguistics, Dialectology, Bilingualism, etc.) in the context of the Spanish language may also be covered. Emphasizing the goals and methodology of the language sciences, Spanish 100 is the foundational course for Spanish department majors in Hispanic Languages, Linguistics, and Bilingualism, as well as for any student interested in the Spanish language and Linguistics.
				MWF 2-3P, VLSB 2038 | 
			
				Instructor: McEnaney				| CCN: 22226 Units: 4
From the claustrophobic spaces of Cortázar’s private rooms or Matías Celedón’s workplaces to the ruins and underground worlds of Antonio José Ponte, the labyrinths and mirrored mansions of Borges, the brutalist monuments of Maples Arce, the city streets of Norah Lange, or the prefabricated constructions of Fabián Casas, Latin American authors have often turned to architecture in their novels, poems, or stories to reimagine the material world and transform the look, sound and shape of literature itself. In this course we will talk about writers and buildings in Argentina, Chile, Cuba, and Mexico during periods of political and artistic revolution, and discuss how their written work engages architecture to think about questions of popular power, housing equality, artistic design, acoustics, and urbanism. We will also look at films, photographs, and paintings to question the limits of literature and ask how different technologies of representation and production—including 3D printing—might help us remake our own constructed world.
				TuTh 12:30-2P, DWINELLE 87 | 
			
				Instructor: Dominguez				| CCN: 20970 Units: 4
Prerequisite: Spanish 25This course is dedicated to studying the links between literature, culture, and slavery in the Hispanic Caribbean. Among the salient themes are the impact of the Haitian Revolution on slaveholding Caribbean societies; the rise and decline of the plantation as an economic model; differences and similarities between systems of slavery in the English, French, and Spanish Caribbean; race and identity in the Caribbean; conspiracies, rebellions, and national projects; and slavery and the literary canon (romanticism, realism, and costumbrismo). Methodologically, the seminar is interdisciplinary: we will work with materials drawn not only from the literature and intellectual history of slavery in the Hispanic Caribbean, but also from visual culture, including lithographs, photographs, and film, and from the medical and scientific archive that took shape around this subject. 
				MWF 11-12P, BARROWS 151 | 
			
				Instructor: Donovan				| CCN: 18402 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Portuguese 101, or consent of instructor.This is an intermediate course for students who have already taken the first level of Portuguese. The main objective of the class is to complement the student’s knowledge of the basic structure of the language, through a programmatic review, while s/he practices the language by reading, speaking and writing about a series of contemporary texts. Students will practice their ability to speak Portuguese through group discussions of assigned readings and reporting on current events obtained from the internet. Not for native speakers with formal training in Portuguese at high school level or beyond.
				MWF 12-1P, BARROWS 104 | 
			
				Instructor: Donovan				| CCN: 19796 Units: 4
In this course, students will examine and produce a draft and final version of four types of text: crônica brasileira, short story, book (or other work of art) review, and argumentative essay. Each day, students will dedicate ten to fifteen minutes of class time to performing writing exercises that introduce them to new vocabulary, focus on certain grammatical structures and stress differences in tone and register. Also, students will compile a writing portfolio, which, in addition to the daily writing assignments, drafts and final versions of the texts, will include peer editing exercises and reflections on various aspects of the writing process. At the end of the semester, students will practice translating texts from English to Portuguese. 
				MWF, Location Varies | 
			
				Instructor: Refer to the Schedule of Classes Units: 4
An intensive course for students who have no previous study of Portuguese designed to introduce the basics of the language. This offering prepares the student for upper division course work in Portuguese.Prerequisites: Knowledge equivalent to two college years of Spanish language or consent of instructor.Refer to the Online Schedule of Classes for available Portuguese 50 sections.
				MWF, Location Varies | 
			
				Instructor: Refer to the Schedule of Classes Units: 3
Introduction to literary concepts, terminology, and theory with application to poetic, dramatic, and prose texts.Enroll in Spanish 25 if you have received a 5 on the AP Spanish language exam. This course has a prerequisite of Spanish 4 or Spanish 22. It is required for anyone wishing to major or minor in Spanish, including heritage speakers.Refer to the Online Schedule of Classes for available Spanish 25 sections.
				MWF 9-10A, VLSB 2066 | 
			
				Instructor: Briggs				| CCN: 21334 Units: 4
This course satisfies the Reading & Composition requirement.The course will offer students an introduction to the literature and culture of Spanish-speaking worlds, will help them develop their skills as readers and critical thinkers and make significant progress in their ability to write coherent, intellectually forceful expository prose. We will focus on analytical writing by developing control of argument and style. Essays will be produced through a process of workshop and revision, with in-class writing, homework, and peer commentary. Our guide will be Style: Lessons in Clarity and Grace. Students meet together and also individually with the professor.
				MW 5-6:30P, BARROWS 136 | 
			
				Instructor: Davidson				| CCN: 21841 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Span 25 and Span 100 – Linguistics Majors can petition to waive theseTaught in Spanish, this course serves to further familiarize students with the fields of Spanish Dialectology and Sociolinguistics. The course centers on the empirical study of linguistic variation that characterizes and is inherent to all human languages, as well as the dynamics of language use that give rise to distinct dialects and language change. Course readings include case studies in Sociolinguistics and Language Variation and Change, and constitute the basis for practical instruction in empirical methodologies for sociolinguistics and dialectology research. Students will be encouraged to critically examine traditional prescriptive approaches to Spanish Dialectology.
				MWF 10-11A, BARROWS 151 | 
			
				Instructor: TBA				| CCN: 21081 Units: 3
Spanish 21 is the first course of an intermediate Spanish Language course for students who speak Spanish in informal settings. This course is designed for first or second generation Spanish speakers in the U.S. who need to develop academic language skills. This course aims to develop formal language through readings, writing and discussion of academic texts and film. Students in this course will become aware of the grammatical differences of Spanish and English and will learn a variety of oral and written registers.
				MWF 10-11A, BARROWS 587 | 
			
				Instructor: TBA				| CCN: 20867 Units: 3
Spanish 22 is the second course of an intermediate Spanish Language course for students who speak Spanish in informal settings, have sophisticated vocabulary and master different grammatical structures. This course aims to continue the development and expansion of academic registers through readings, writing and discussion of academic texts and film. In Spanish 22 students read academic articles, more complex than those read in Spanish 21. Students in this course will develop more sophisticated vocabulary and learn a variety of oral and written registers.
				TuTh 2-3:30P, VLSB 2011 | 
			
				Instructor: CALLAHAN				| CCN: 21403 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Span 25 and Span 100 – Linguistics Majors can petition to waive theseTaught in Spanish, this course serves to further familiarize students with the structure of the Spanish sound system. The course centers on the vocalic and consonantal inventories of various Spanish dialects using both phonological and acoustic phonetic analyses with the goal of preparing students to conduct phonological and phonetic analyses on Spanish varieties, as well as on their own speech. Emphasis will be placed on the skills and techniques particular to sound spectral analysis. Sociophonetic variation (i.e., constant variability in speech production) will also be addressed in the context of empirical research studies.
				F 1-2:30, 5125 Dwinelle | 
			
				Instructor: Iarocci				| CCN: 21256 Units: 1.0

				TuTh 9:30-11A, BARROWS 80 | 
			
				Instructor: Navarrete				| CCN: 21423 Units: 4
This writing-intensive course is for Spanish majors only.This is a writing-intensive course focusing on a close reading of the novel La Celestina. For Calisto it was love at first sight when he wandered into Melibea’s Garden. Or was it lust? At the suggestion of his servant Sempronio, he hires the witch Celestina to help him seduce Melibea. She succeeds, but by the end of the book Sempronio murders Celestina and is himself executed, Calisto is dead and Melibea commits suicide. In our seminar we will read La Celestina, the first modern Spanish novel, and in our weekly meetings discuss its careful dissection of corruption, hypocrisy, and human motivation. In addition we will also read other literary, legal, medical, and historical texts that will help us understand this novel and contemporary ideas about topics such as sentimental love, sexuality and health, prostitution, witchcraft, salvation, corruption, and suicide. Students will write a number of short projects, building up to a longer essay (14-18 pages), and a final exam.
				Tu 3-6P, BARROWS 180 | 
			
				Instructor: Slater				| CCN: 19788 Units: 4
Working knowledge of Portuguese requiredMeets the Graduate Certificate in Global Urban Humanities elective requirementThis course examines a range of outsiders within Brazilian society—the rural poor versus the urban poor, particular sorts of women in a male context, indigenous peoples, Blacks, LBGT people, and so on. We will keep returning to the strategies that the authors and filmmakers utilize in their portrayal of these varied “others” who are not just inesquecíveis but memoráveis in the sense of incorporating (and thereby stirring up or re-framing) individual and collective memories. We will also reflect together on the ways in which the works transform their matéria bruta (in the sense of raw material and also, at times, of brutal actions) by building upon, or breaking with, older tropes of otherness. The accompanying critical readings raise important questions that provide a larger social and historical context that emphasize the works’ more collective dimensions. “What,” we will keep asking, “do these particular outsiders-within allow or force the author to do that he or she would have trouble doing otherwise?Some of the authors and filmmakers include Graciliano Ramos, Clarice Lispector, Raduan Nassar, Milton Hatoum, Eduardo Coutinho, Kleber Mendonça Filho, José Padilha, and Ciro Guerra (the last of these a Colombian filmmaker who depicts an area of the Amazon where one finds Brazilians as well as Colombians.)
				TuTh 12:30-2P, WHEELER 126 | 
			
				Instructor: Del Valle				| CCN: 21293 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Span 25In this course we will study the colonization of the Americas (16th-18th centuries) as a way of considering what this economic and political relationship has meant at various moments on both sides of the Atlantic: for Spain in particular and Europe in general, as well as for those under colonial control. Some of the key themes on which the course will focus are: the criteria of truth in historical writing and science, the development of new forms of subjectivity, the relationships between distinct racial groups, and the impact of these phenomena on the formation of a world order. The majority of readings will come from the Colonial Period, but we will also examine contemporary theories on colonization.The course has the following, dual learning objectives for students: first, to foster an understanding of what the “encounter” of these two worlds meant in its time and, second, to study the origins of Latin American countries. On the one hand, the material studied is in conversation with other courses in the department (including those on Medieval and Golden Age Spanish Literature and those on Contemporary Latin American Literature) through the engagement with subjects such as nationalism, indigenismo, and Testimonial Literature, among others. On the other hand, the course intends to stimulate interest in the colonial past and also facilitate the analysis and understanding of texts written in a period very distinct from our own. 
				TuTh 11A-12:30P, WHEELER 104 | 
			
				Instructor: Navarrete				| CCN: 21273 Units: 4
Prerequisites: Span 25This survey course in Medieval and early modern literature will cover the evolution of narrative, lyric, and dramatic genres from the 13th century to Calderón de la Barca in the 17th, and put them in the context of the social transformations of their time, particularly the complex relationships between Christian Spain and its Jewish and Muslim counterparts. Works and authors to be studied include a Medieval epic, Arabic-derived frame tales, La Celestina, Lazarillo de Tormes, poems from the oral ballad tradition and by the Marqués de Santillana, Garcilaso de la Vega, Fray Luis de Leon, San Juan de la Cruz, Góngora and Quevedo; two short novels by Cervantes and his contemporary María de Zayas, and plays by Calderón and his contemporary Ana Caro. Students will write two short, 3-4 page papers and take two midterms and a final.– SPANISH R1A/B, 1, 2, 3, 4, 21, 22, 25   We have a very high demand for our language classes, and more students want to take Spanish than can be accommodated. Because of this, we’ve had to impose strict requirements for attendance and enrolling from the wait list. Please read the following so that you’re aware of our policies and aren’t caught off guard as the semester begins.MANDATORY ATTENDANCE FOR THOSE ENROLLED(Note: You are not considered enrolled if you are on the wait list.)Attendance is mandatory for the first two weeks of class. Any student who is not there when roll is taken will be dropped from the course.Switching sections: You cannot use your position in a class to swap with another student. The only way to change sections of Spanish is to drop the class you are enrolled in and put yourself at the bottom of the wait list for the class that you want to take. See wait list policies below for procedures to follow once you are on a wait list.Dropping students: We will be taking roll daily in all Spanish classes and will drop those students who do not attend. For each student who is dropped, one will move in from the wait list.WAIT LIST POLICIES (strictly enforced)There is no “crashing” of Spanish courses. The only way to get into a course is through the wait list, so please be sure that you’ve added yourself through CalCentral. Once on the list, you are added in the order in which you put yourself on the wait list.Attendance at classes while on the wait list: Only the first five people listed on the wait list will be able to sit in on the class, and they are not guaranteed admittance to the class. Everyone else will be turned away. It is your responsibility to check your status daily to see what your position is on the wait list; do not attend class unless you are #1 – 5.Enrollment cut-off: We will drop students through the second week of class and then cut off all additional enrollments. Therefore, if you’re not on the official class roster on Friday of the second week of class you will not be allowed to take the class, even if there is space at that time.Don’t get caught short a class: If you’re on the wait list, please be sure to have an alternative plan in place, in case you do not get onto the class roster by our enrollment cut-off date.Dear Prospective Students,Welcome to the web site for the Department of Spanish & Portuguese at the University of California, Berkeley! We encourage you to explore the graduate program, which offers a Ph.D. in Hispanic Languages and Literatures and a Ph.D. in Romance Languages and Literatures. Our programs have attracted an international group of students, with approximately 55 active at any given time.It’s no surprise to us graduate students that UC Berkeley was recently rated by U.S. News and World Report as the best university in the U.S. for graduate study. Our library collections, easily navigated with the latest technology, are among the largest in the country. All of the UC system libraries are linked to one another, making Inter-Library Loans between campuses convenient for all students. In addition, Berkeley students interested in media studies enjoy access to the immense resource of the Pacific Film Archive.Throughout the campus our faculty members are respected as some of the most talented and involved members of their fields. Those in the Spanish & Portuguese department are actively publishing and eager to bring their cutting-edge expertise and energy to the classroom. The Portuguese program is strong and expanding, while the Spanish program continues to attract new and talented professors. To compliment courses taken within the department, graduate students are encouraged to branch out and establish working relationships with faculty members in other fields, widening the scope of our studies.The Berkeley community and campus are famous worldwide for dynamic intellectual community and commitment to the development of solid thinkers; we assure you that as a student here, you will find the same qualities in the department of Spanish and Portuguese. The graduate students are very pleased with our department’s combination of professional rigor and social camaraderie. Professors encourage the sharing of ideas between graduate students and are willing to give detailed commentary on term papers and articles-in-progress. We are always welcome during faculty hours for discussing individual research and further developing classroom discussion. In addition to invaluable support from the professors, graduate students depend on one another for continued intellectual growth and feedback. Many students participate in self-generated working groups, often funded by the Townsend Center.Berkeley, San Francisco and the larger Bay Area offer unequaled literary and political communities with phenomenal access to cultural events, all set within the gorgeous landscape of the San Francisco Bay. We love it here and take great pride in our work and our supportive, professional environment. Our department certainly has a lot to offer; please contact us with any questions you might have.Suerte,The Graduate StudentsNote:  Applicants are encouraged to clarify any questions concerning the Admissions/GSI application procedures with the Staff Graduate Adviser at spanga@berkeley.edu————————————————————————————————Applicants for admission to the graduate program in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese must submit the Graduate Division’s on-line Graduate Application for Admission and Fellowships on or before the deadline.The department offers two Ph.D. programs, a Ph.D. in Hispanic Languages and Literatures and a Ph.D. in Romance Languages and Literatures, emphasis Spanish. Students should become thoroughly acquainted with both degree programs (HLL and RLL) and determine which program best reflects their objectives before submitting their application. A Master’s Degree in a Linguistics field for applicants to HLL Linguistics is highly recommended.Students are responsible for reading and complying with all application guidelines. All supporting documents listed below must be submitted by the December deadline through the University online application. The time available to departments for the review of applications is extremely limited. We cannot guarantee that documents sent separately will be connected to your application in time for review. Please note that late and incomplete applications will not be reviewed. Applications are accepted for Fall term only.Statement of Purpose: In your statement please indicate why you wish to pursue graduate studies, your goals, the intellectual field of primary interest and the topic(s) within it that you have worked on in classes, papers or trips abroad. Please explain why the topic is compelling and how you wish to develop it at Berkeley. For more information click here.Personal Statement: Personal statement should give concrete evidence of your promise as a member of the academic community, giving the committee an image of you as a person. This is where you represent your potential to bring to your academic career a critical perspective rooted in a non-traditional educational background, or your understanding of the experiences of groups historically under-represented in higher education and your commitment to increase participation by a diversity population in higher education. For more information click here.IMPORTANT: For the purpose of campus-wide fellowship competitions, applicants who submit the statement of purpose and personal history statement in Spanish/Portuguese should also submit an English version of both.ADMISSIONS PROCEDURES AND CRITERIAThe Departmental Committee on Admissions and Fellowships examines and evaluates all applications for admission (including those with requests for fellowships and/or teaching appointments) early in the spring semester of each year. Its recommendations concerning admission and fellowships are made to the Graduate Division by mid-February.The Department informs all applicants recommended for admission, admission with fellowship, or admission with teaching appointment in early March; formal admission letters from the Graduate Division follow shortly.Criteria for the selection of applicants for graduate study in the various programs offered by the Department include the following, the first four being of principal importance: closeness of previous academic record to the stated prerequisites for the program of interest, especially in breadth and strength of studies; recommendation letters, with special attention to evaluations of research potential; GPA in the B.A. (and if appropriate, in the M.A.) courses in the appropriate fields, including language proficiency in Spanish, Portuguese or Catalan; statement of purpose, showing evidence of intellectual initiative and commitment; student’s stated field of emphasis, in light of departmental offerings and fields of faculty specializations. The following table lists chronologically Ph.D. Degrees in Spanish & Portuguese conferred from 1952 to 1980 (** after title indicates that a copy is on file in the Departmental Library, 5125 Dwinelle).The following table lists chronologically Ph.D. Degrees in Spanish & Portuguese conferred from 1952 to 1980 (** after title indicates that a copy is on file in the Departmental Library, 5125 Dwinelle).The following table lists chronologically Ph.D. Degrees in Spanish & Portuguese conferred from 1982 to 1999 (** after title indicates that a copy is on file in the Departmental Library, 5125 Dwinelle). The following table lists chronologically Ph.D. Degrees in Spanish & Portuguese   conferred from 2000 to date (** after title indicates that a copy is on file in the Departmental Library, 5125 Dwinelle).For degrees granted before 2000, pages are available here: The Graduate Division administers most merit-based financial awards through the Graduate Fellowship Office (318 Sproul Hall, (510) 642-0672). Need-based financial assistance is awarded through the Financial Aid Office (201 Sproul Hall, (510) 642-0485).Qualified students in certain literatures may also apply for Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) fellowships. Students interested in other award sources are encouraged to read the literature issued by the Fellowship Office of the Graduate Division (318 Sproul Hall), which describes various restricted fellowships and outside grants. Completion of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form is required for all students, except foreigners. It is usually due at the beginning of March.Multi-year University-sponsored fellowships are awarded through an annual campus wide competition administered by the Graduate Fellowship Office. Departments select nominees for fellowships from prospective applicants. Applicants are URGED to complete the fellowship application (Part C-D/E) from the online admission application.Applications for Graduate Student Instructorships for the teaching of Spanish, Portuguese, and Catalan are accepted from applicants newly seeking admission to a graduate program as well as from continuing graduate students. Formal appointment for students new to the University cannot be accomplished, however, until confirmation of admission is received from the Graduate Division.Applications are reviewed and evaluated by a departmental committee according to the following criteria:Graduate students may apply for need-based loans and work-study through the Graduate Financial Aid Office located at 201 Sproul Hall (642-0485).Under federal guidelines all graduate students are considered independent, so unless they receive other funding which meets the standard student budget, most students are eligible for some type of financial aid.In order to receive aid, students must also be enrolled and be making satisfactory academic progress toward their degrees.All students, except foreign students, applying for Fellowships or Financial Aid are REQUIRED to complete the FAFSA form (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) available in 201 Sproul Hall.A variety of fellowships and fee grants are awarded to graduate students throughout the year. Fellowship fund sources fall into three categories: 1. Departmental, 2. Graduate Division, and 3. Other. It is the student’s responsibility to identify appropriate sources of support and meet all deadlines. For further information, please refer to the fellowships bulletin-board located outside the Graduate Assistant’s office (5309 Dwinelle).1.    DEPARTMENTALApplications available in the Graduate Office, 5309 DwinelleAll of the above are processed by the Department.*  Funding for Non-resident Tuition is not available to students beyond the Normative Time period for the program in which they are enrolled, that is 6 years in the Ph. D. program in Romance Languages and Literatures, and 6 years in the Ph.D. in Hispanic and Languages and Literatures program.International Graduate Students Advanced to Candidacy have a maximum of three years of Non-Resident Tuition Waiver. If they exceed this time, student will have to pay the full Non-Resident Tuition cost on their own.CONFERENCE TRAVEL
This support is available to students whose conference papers deal directly with the dissertation. Students must be Advanced to Candidacy to be eligible for support. A maximum of $350 per year may be reimbursed for travel, lodging and meals. Request must be approved by the Chair of the department prior to attending the conference. This application must be accompanied by a photocopy of the invitation or acceptance of the paper, and by a letter from the Chair of the dissertation committee confirming that the paper is related to the dissertation.Deadlines:**** Click  Conference Travel to download the application.Summer Research GrantCall for summer research projects will be announced by mid-February. Students can apply for a maximum of $3,000 to fund their summer research. Applications will be judged according to intellectual excellence and achievement in the field. The request should be geared towards academic progress. Grants may be applied to the following categories:RequirementsPriority will be given to candidates who have not received summer support in the past. Applicants are strongly encouraged to look for other sources of funding (CLAS, IAS, PSP, Townsend, etc.). Special attention will be given to applications seeking matching funds.DEADLINE:     Submit your request to Verónica López by mid-March
Support for MLA candidatesThe department will provide support to candidates interviewing at the annual MLA Conference. Total amount reimbursed will be announced by mid-November.2.   GRADUATE DIVISION FELLOWSHIPS
Applications available in the Graduate Fellowships Office, 318 Sproul Hall. For a full listing, click here  Applications for the following fellowships are available in the Graduate Fellowships Office: Bancroft Library Study, Phi Beta Kappa Scholarships, Mabelle McLeod Lewis, Ford Foundation Minority Doctoral, Fulbright and Grants for Graduate Study Abroad, Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad Grants.Conference Travel GrantAwards to allow Ph.D. and Master’s students in academic degree programs to attend professional conferences (professional programs are not eligible). Applicants must be presenting a paper or poster on their research at the conference they are attending.Doctoral Completion FellowshipThe Doctoral Completion Fellowship (DCF) provides an incentive for students in certain graduate programs, to complete their degree within a reasonable time. This is a new fellowship program available to students in participating graduate programs who enter in Fall 2010 or later. It replaces the Dean’s Normative Time Fellowship (DNTF). Students in qualifying programs admitted in Spring 2010 and before remain in the DNTF program, as described in the Guide to Graduate Policy. Doctoral students who advanced to candidacy will be eligible for two semesters of fellowship (stipend and fees).The fellowship can be used during any semester within the remaining normative time established for the major, plus one more year (can’t exceed 7 years). They must be registered by university deadlines in the semester(s) they intend to receive this fellowship. For more information, go to the Fellowship office, 318 Sproul Hall.3.   OTHER SOURCES
•   FINANCIAL AID
Graduate students may apply for need-based loans and work-study through the Graduate Financial Aid Office located at 201 Sproul Hall (642-0485). Under federal guidelines all graduate students are considered independent, so unless they receive other funding which meets the standard student budget, most students are eligible for some type of financial aid. In order to receive aid, students must also be enrolled and be making satisfactory academic progress toward their degrees.For more information, visit  the office of financial aid.Download GSI Application (HERE)Graduate Student Instructorship in the Department of Spanish & PortugueseIn the Department a Graduate Student Instructor (a.k.a. Teaching Assistant) is normally assigned to sections of the Department’s Lower Division language courses, under the supervision of the faculty Director of Lower Division Courses and the Assistant Directors. GSIs are expected to assist with classroom teaching of one section per term (five hours per week), language laboratory duties, and all other duties connected with the proper functioning of the assigned section, as established by the Director of Lower Division Courses. Fulfillment of these duties and responsibilities will require an average of twenty hours per week (17 weeks = 340 hours).All graduate students seeking an initial appointment in the Department—for any part of the academic year—-are required to attend the Department’s orientation program and to enroll, during the initial appointment, in the Department’s methodology course (Spanish 375—-Teaching Spanish in College), both of which are offered only in the fall semester of each year. Students who have completed similar courses or programs at another institutions are NOT exempt from these requirements. Students entering a graduate program in mid-year or wishing to begin teaching in the spring semester must make special arrangements for the completion of the requirements with the Director of Lower Division Courses. GSIs are expected to be available for duty the first day of the semester through the time that final grades have been computed and turned in to the supervisor in charge.Appointments are for one semester or for one year and are self-terminating. Reappointment is contingent upon: a) continued eligibility as per the qualifications stated above; b) satisfactory teaching performance in the Department, as measured by faculty and student evaluations.Under exceptional circumstances, upon special recommendation by the Department and with the approval of the Graduate Council, a GSI may assist with a section of an Upper Division course.The Committee on Teaching of the Berkeley Division of the Academic Senate administers an “Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Program” for the purpose of recognizing, upon recommendation by their respective departments, the noteworthy contributions of Graduate Student Instructors. Receipt of the award is recognition and evidence of the instructor’s exemplary performance, based on criteria that involve teaching effectiveness, command of the subject, skills in preparing and teaching classes, ability to motivate students, and contributions to the course, as evaluated by departmental supervisors. Recipients are presented with certificates of distinction at special ceremonies.DEADLINE FOR NEW APPLICANTS:  DECEMBER 15Applications for Graduate Student Instructorships for the teaching of Spanish, Portuguese, and Catalan are accepted from applicants newly seeking admission to a graduate program as well as from continuing graduate students. Formal appointment for students new to the University cannot be accomplished, however, until confirmation of admission is received from the Graduate Division.Applications are reviewed and evaluated by a departmental committee according to the following criteria: 1) the quality of the student’s academic record; 2) the quality of the student’s previous training or abilities with Spanish, Portuguese, or Catalan as languages, as evidenced in part by a submitted recording of a set reading passage (see below); and 3) the quality of the student’s previous record (if any) of teaching any of those three languages at the college level, as reflected both in student and supervisor evaluations.Applicants are ranked by the same departmental committee recognizing priority, ceteris paribus, of students in the Department (A), followed by students in other Departments with Hispanic field focused programs (B), and students in other fields (C).Application Procedure1) First-time applications:RecordingFirst time applicants may submit individual recording for any or all of the three languages taught in the Department. You must include the material for Part I and Part II on each recording.Part I:        Personal Information Identify yourself; speak for 3–5 minutes in the language in question about yourself, your studies, the places where you have lived, your plans for the future and then record the appropriate passage as given below.Part II:       Reading Passages                   Select the appropriate language passage(s).Hubo, en época muy remota de ésta en que vivimos, un poderoso rey, amado con extremo de sus vasallos y poseedor de un fertilísimo, dilatado y populoso reino, allá en las regiones de Oriente. Tenía este rey inmensos tesoros y daba fiestas espléndidas. Asistían en su corte las más gentiles damas y los más discretos y valientes caballeros que entonces había en el mundo. Su ejército era numeroso y aguerrido. Sus naves recorrían como en triunfo el océano. Los parques y jardines, donde solía cazar y holgarse, eran maravillosos por su grandeza y frondosidad y por la copia de alimañas y de aves que en ellos se alimentaban y vivían.Atirei os pés incertos para o soalho. Mergulhei na algibeira uma escova de dentes; topando nos móveis, procurei as chinelas que embrulhei num número da Nação. Sem reparo, agarrei dentre as malas um caizote com bandas de ferro; e em ponta de botins desci a escada da Titi, encolhido a rasteiro como um cão tinhoso vexado da sua tinha.Mal transpus o pátio, a Vicência, cumprindo as ordens sanhudas da Titi, bateu-me nas costas com o portao chapeado de ferro — desprezivelmente e para sempre!Estava só na rua e na vida! À luz dos frios astros contei na palma o meu dinheiro. Tinha duas libras, dezoito tostões, um duro espanhol e cobres . . . E então descrobri que a caixa, apanhada tontamente entre as malas, era a das relíquias menores. Complicado sarcasmo do destino! Para cobrir meu corpo desabrigado — nada mais tinha que tabuinhas aplainadas por São José, e cacos de barro do cântaro da Virgem! Meti no bolso o embrulho das chinelas; e, sem voltar os olhos turvos a casa de minha tia, marchei a pé com o caixote às costas, na noite cheia de silêncio e de estrelas, para Baixa, para o Hotel de Pomba de Ouro.Entre les coses de la nostra època que no lliguen, n’hi ha dues que entren juntes a la meva vida quotidiana. Una d’elles és el problema de la incomunicació, i l’altra les parets primes de les construccions modernes.La incomunicació — referida al contacte humà—és evident. A la casa on visc fa més de quinze anys, hi ha vint-i-vuit famílies, allò que a l’antigor en deien focs. De mitjana, fent un capmàs, crec que som uns, vuitanta veïns, que ens veiem i ens saludem sobretot a l’ascensor, la cabina del qual pot traginar tres-cents quilos. Persones o una impedimenta de pes equivalent. Si es tracta de persones, una plaqueta d’alumini amb inscripcions adverteix que no poden passar de quatre adults. Si es tracta de maletes o embalums de mena variada, la cosa és més aleatòria i ho han de deixar al cop d’ull dels usuaris.University Definitions and Restrictions:A Graduate Student Instructor (GSI) is a trainee student teacher appointed temporarily by an instructional department. Appointment as a Graduate Student Instructor or in combination with any other University employment may not exceed half-time.Qualifications:All Graduate Student Instructors must be registered graduate students at the University of California, Berkeley. They must maintain a GPA of 3.1 or higher, carry a minimum load of 8 units; have no more than two “Incompletes”, and make continuous and satisfactory progress toward the degree — within the normative time guidelines established for the degree sought.All first time Graduate Student Instructors who are not native speakers of English must attain a level of English proficiency sufficient to carry out their teaching duties, as shown by acceptable scores in either the Test of Spoken English (TSE) or the Speaking Proficiency English Assessment Kit (SPEAK). Students who have received their B.A., B.S. degree from an institution in the United States are exempted from this requirement, as well as students for those who have passed the speaking section of the TOEFL iBT with a minimum score of 26 points.Salary:The current stipend for one academic year is $20,050.50 and will be paid in ten (10) equal installments. One-semester appointments are compensated at 50% of this salary and paid in five (5) equal monthly installments.Restrictions:Service as a GSI in the UC System (regardless of campus or combination of campuses) is normally restricted to FOUR years. In exceptional/extenuating circumstances, the Graduate Dean will consider an extension of eligibility. An absolute maximum of six (6) years is enforced in any event. Formal request for extension of appointment beyond four (4) years must be made by the appointing department and must be justified by the student’s graduate advisor or thesis director as well as by the departmental Director of Lower Division Courses. The letters from the graduate advisor/thesis director must: 1) explain the circumstances that may have delayed the student’s progress; 2) project completion dates for each of the remaining degree requirements (i.e. qualifying examination, filing of dissertation); and 3) emphasize the student’s scholarly merits. The letter from the Department Director of Lower Division Courses should support the request for an extension in terms of the student’s value and merits as an instructor and should include a discussion of the student’s teaching performance, special assignments, achievements, or special recognitions.Graduate Student Instructorships in the Department are defined by the University as 50%-Time employments and imply that no other appointments in the University or elsewhere may be accepted concurrently with such an Instructorship. Rare exceptions to the rule are allowed, but only by approval of the Associate Dean of the Graduate Division and require, if approved, an 8.95% contribution to FICA taxes on the part of the student.International graduate student instructors are limited to a maximum of 50% appointment per year. No exceptions.For information on Unions, Bargaining Agreements, and Labor Relations, please visit their web site at: http://hrweb.berkeley.edu/hrlabor.htmDisability Resolution.The campus offers many different resources for graduate students with disabilities. The purpose of an academic accommodation is to offer the graduate student an equal opportunity to meet the department‚s academic standards and requirements. The Disabled Students Program at (510) 642-0518 serves graduate students with disabilities (who complete the process for establishing eligibility) by authorizing academic accommodations. Disabled Access Services at (510) 643-6473 or 643-6456 can usually assist with accommodations to extra-curricular events. Most physical access issues are addressed in the Campus Access Guide. Finally, problems with accommodations may be reported to the campus Disability Resolution Officer at (510) 642-2795. DELGADO, CARLO   …   360 Doe Library   …    643-3351   …   cdelgado@library.berkeley.edu POTTS,CLAUDE   …   438 Doe Library   …   642-6052   …   cpotts@library.berkeley.edu CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES2334 Bowditch Street642-2088email: clas@berkeley.edu IBERIAN STUDIES GROUP251 Moses Hall642-5326 INTERNATIONAL & AREA STUDIES260 Stephens Hall642-4466email: ias@berkeley.edu PORTUGUESE STUDIES PROGRAM254 Moses Hall, #2316643-0980email: psp@berkeley.edu SERVICES FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS & SCHOLARS International House2299 Piedmont Avenue642-2818http://ias.berkeley.edu/siss/ GENDER EQUITY RESOURCE CENTER (Women’s Resource Center)202 César Chávez Student Center #2440642-4786email: geneq@berkeley.eduhttp://geneq.berkeley.edu American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese (AATSP)106 Gunter HallUniversity of ColoradoGreeley, CO 80639Website: http://www.aatsp.org/ American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL)6 Executive BoulevardYonkers, NY 10701(212) 475-9500Website: http://www.actfl.org/ Latin American Studies Association (LASA)946 William Pitt UnionUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260Phone: (412) 648-7929Fax: (412) 624-7145Website: http://lasa.international.pitt.edu/ Brasilian Studies Association (BRASA)Latin American InstituteUniversity of New Mexico801 Yale, NEAlbuquerque, NM 87131-1016Phone: (505) 277-2961Fax (505 277-5989Website: http://brasa.unm.edu Modern Language Association of America (MLA) 10 Astor PlaceNew York, NY 10003-6981Fax: (212) 477-9863Website: http://www.mla.org/The Department appoints temporary staff during the Summer Session for the teaching of Lower Division language courses. Due to the limited number of posts available, applications are accepted only from students enrolled in Berkeley graduate programs.I. Applications for teaching courses Spanish 4 or 25.II. Applications for teaching courses Spanish 1-3, 15, 20.Requirements:Applicants are ranked within each of the priority categories set forth below by the Department’s Committee on Admissions and Graduate Student Instructorships, based on evaluation of 1)the quality of the student’s previous teaching record (as reflected in both student and supervisorial evaluations) and 2) the quality of the student’s academic record and progress to the degree within normative time at Berkeley.Ranking categories:To the extent of departmental need, potential appointees are recommended by the Chair of the Department to the Director of Summer Session, following concurrence by the Dean of the Graduate Division, in light of the four year norm for graduate student teaching. Teaching posts in the Summer Session, however, are neither counted in calculations of the “four year norm” for graduate student teaching nor in those of the general “six year” limitation imposed within the University of California system.Applications for Summer Teaching Posts:Applications are available beginning mid November, and closed in early February. Applications delivered following the announced closing date are considered by the Committee late during the spring term under the basic provisions, categories, and ranking guides stated above, for offer, as departmental need allows, on an emergency basis at the opening of the Session and following satisfaction of all approved applications in the normal selection round. Prerequisites for AdmissionProgram OverviewIn close consultation with faculty, the student will develop a specialization in one of three tracks:Each track will be organized around student areas of interest. Course preparation will lead to the Qualifying Examination, followed by the completion of a dissertation in the field.Descriptions:LITERATURE  (Tracks 1 & 2)
Upon arrival in Berkeley, students in these two tracks will meet with a designated First-Year Mentor, who will assess their preparation and advise them on appropriate coursework for their first four semesters. Advising after the first year will be done by the Department’s Head Graduate Adviser (HGA) or a designated assistant adviser. Although students during those first four semesters will naturally want to take courses in their main areas of interest and also look to fulfilling requirements for the Ph.D., they are also expected to concentrate on coursework in areas that they have not studied before, in order to prepare themselves for the general examination.The immediate goal of the new graduate student is the General Examination, scheduled for their fourth semester. This exam is based on a standard reading list of Spanish and Latin American literature that first-year students will receive when they enter the program. The reading list represents literature from all of the traditional sub-fields. A three-person committee appointed by the Chair will conduct the exam. A Pass is required in order to continue in the program. Students who come to Berkeley with an M.A. or otherwise have a strong preparation may petition to take the exam before the fourth semester.After passing the General Examination, students will submit a Statement of Purpose that reflects greater intellectual maturity after two years of graduate study, as well as possible changes in primary area of interest, greater understanding of research areas, and other changes in a student’s conception of his/her role in the field. The Statement, together with the results of the General Examination and the student’s performance in coursework, will be considered by the faculty of the Department as a whole, who will then vote whether to allow the student to continue in the program.Students invited to continue in the program will concentrate their coursework on remaining Ph.D. requirements including any Designated Emphases (Film, Gender Studies, Critical Theory, etc.) they may have chosen. Formal advising will continue to be carried out by the HGA or an assistant. In addition, the specialist in the student’s chosen field will increasingly mentor the student.The Qualifying Examination will normally take place in the student’s eighth semester, but may be moved forward in instances of adequate preparation. Early in the semester in which students plan to take the Oral Ph.D. Exam (QE), they will write three field statements, with accompanying bibliographies. Each statement will focus on a pressing topic or problematic, a “deep dive” within the student’s intended field of specialization. The intended fields of specialization should generally track the common areas of specialization in the academic job market. After submitting the three field statements and bibliography, the student will take a 2-day written exam based on questions related to them. The field-statements and the written exam will be assessed by the student’s examination committee in order to determine whether or not the student is prepared to proceed to the oral examination. After passing the Qualifying Examination, students will have two years to research and write a dissertation, embodying the results of original research on a subject chosen by the student. The degree should be completed within the program’s normative time of six years.LINGUISTICS  (Track 3)Initial reception into the program and advising will proceed as in Tracks 1 and 2 above, with advising carried out by a designated Assistant Graduate Adviser for this track.All second-year Ph.D. students in Hispanic Linguistics will submit a Qualifying Paper spanning at least one sub-field of Spanish linguistics. The paper should be formatted according to the style sheet of a reputable venue of conference proceedings, such as those from the Hispanic Linguistics Symposium (HLS) or the Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages (LSRL). The paper will be evaluated by a committee of no fewer than two professors specializing in Linguistics (one of whom must be from the Department of Spanish and Portuguese), with the aim of determining whether or not the student is ready to continue on to advanced doctoral research in Hispanic Linguistics. After completing the Qualifying Paper, students will submit a Statement of Purpose. This, together with the results of the Qualifying Paper, will be considered by the faculty of the Department as a whole, who will then vote whether to allow the student to continue in the program.Early in the semester in which they hope to take their Ph.D. Qualifying Examination, students will submit a second Qualifying Paper spanning at least one sub-field of Hispanic linguistics. The topic of the paper (as opposed to the sub-field in linguistics) cannot be the same as the previous Qualifying Paper and must be of a higher caliber. The student should prepare the paper as if planning to submit it to a non-conference venue, professional linguistics journal. After submitting the second Qualifying Paper, the student will then take a 2-day written exam based on two linguistic sub-fields of the student’s choosing. The student’s examination committee will assess the second Qualifying Paper and the written exams in order to determine whether or not the student is prepared to proceed to the oral portion of the Qualifying Examination. After passing the qualifying examination, students will have two years to research and write a dissertation, embodying the results of original research on a subject chosen by the student. The degree should be completed within the program’s normative time of six years.MentoringAll incoming students will be assigned to a First-year Mentor (1 faculty member) responsible for assessing their preparation and helping the incoming students during their transition into the program. Curricular advising in years 2, 3, and 4 will be carried out by the Head Graduate Adviser or designate in consultation with appropriate faculty, according to students’ interests.Mentoring for advanced students (years 3 and 4) continues to come from faculty likely to be part of the students Ph.D. Qualifying Examination.General ExaminationLITERATURE (Tracks 1 & 2)All second-year students will take a written General Examination. The exam will be based on a reading list of Spanish and Latin American literature (70-80 titles total) that first-year students will receive when they enter the program. It represents literature from all of the traditional sub-fields (Medieval, Early Modern and Modern Spain, Colonial and Modern Latin America). The General Examination will be administered in the 4th semester, so normally in the spring, although students will be able to petition for an accelerated progress and an early exam.After completing the General Examination, students will submit a Statement of Purpose. The Statement is similar in scope and length to that originally submitted on the student’s Application for Graduate Study, but should reflect greater intellectual maturity after two years of graduate study, as well as changes in primary area of interest, greater understanding of research areas, and other changes in a student’s conception of his/her role in the field. The Statement, together with the results of the General Examination and the student’s performance in coursework, will be considered by the faculty of the Department as a whole, who will then vote whether to allow the student to continue in the program.The exam will be administered by a standing committee of the Department, so the same committee will evaluate every student. The exam will be scheduled for shortly after Spring Break, allowing a month for grading.  Passing the exam is necessary for an MA, so students who fail it would not receive that degree. Students may repeat the exam once if they fail it.LINGUISTICS (Track 3)All second-year Ph.D. students in Hispanic Linguistics will submit a 1st Qualifying Paper spanning at least one sub-field of Spanish linguistics (chosen by each student; for example, Phonology/Phonetics, Morphology, Historical Linguistics, Sociolinguistics, etc.). The paper should be formatted according to the style sheet of a reputable venue of conference proceedings, such as those from the Hispanic Linguistics Symposium (HLS) or the Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages (LSRL), and should be roughly 10-20 pages long. The paper will be evaluated by a committee of no fewer than two professors specializing in Linguistics (one of whom must be from the Department of Spanish and Portuguese), with the aim of determining whether or not the student is ready to continue on to advanced doctoral research in Hispanic Linguistics. The evaluation is a Pass/Fail, and a Pass is required in order to continue in the program. After passing the Qualifying Paper, students will submit a Statement of Purpose as part of the Permission to Continue. The document must be submitted to the Graduate Office for distribution.Permission to Continue in the Ph.D.The faculty of the department as a whole will decide if a student should continue in the program, based on performance on the General Examination/1st Qualifying Paper, experience of the student in coursework, and the student’s Statement of Purpose. Course Requirements All courses used to satisfy a requirement or courses taken toward study program, must be taken for a letter grade option only. Passing grade for graduate students is a B or better. LITERATUREA minimum of twelve courses are required for the Ph.D. This includes eleven courses in the department, and at least one course outside. Up to two Upper-Division courses would be allowed with permission of the graduate adviser. In addition to the 11, students will take courses for Designated Emphases, language study, etc.  Courses numbered 298, 601, 602 would remain as options but do not count towards course requirements.The following must be included within the 11-course requirement:LINGUISTICSA minimum of twelve courses are required for the Ph.D. Up to two Upper-Division courses would be allowed with permission of the graduate adviser.Coursework Requirements for Hispanic Linguistics Track include:Foreign Language RequirementFor students in Literature two foreign languages pertinent to the specialization. Of these, Spanish for students of Luso-Brazilian studies and Portuguese for students of Hispanic literatures are required, and must be fulfilled through graduate course work taught in the pertinent language (not English). The second language requirement must be satisfied by passing the Language Reading Examinations administered by the respective language department. The requirement should be satisfied as early as possible in the student’s doctoral career and must be completed prior to Admission to the Qualifying Examination.For students in Linguistics two languages other than the primary concentration are required.   A graduate course in the language or the language reading examination will satisfy the requirement in the Linguistics program. The requirement should be satisfied as early as possible in the student’s doctoral career and must be completed prior to Admission to the Qualifying Examination. Qualifying Examination (QE)
 The examination committee (constituted the semester prior to QE) is made up of five members, including at least one person from outside the Department. One member of the committee will chair the exam; this person may not direct the dissertation. All members of the committee, including the “outside” member, must be Academic Senate members. All five members of the Qualifying Examination Committee must be present and voting at the oral examination.Final composition of the Qualifying Examination Committee is approved by the Head Graduate Adviser. Final versions of the field statements and bibliographies will be turned in no later than one-month before the date set for the oral examination.Student must complete the QE application form with the Graduate Assistant at least four weeks before the exam. Students may not take the Qualifying Examination if they have more than one Incomplete.The oral portion of the QE will consist of a three-hour examination conducted by a committee of five, one of whom at least must be from outside the Department.LITERATURE (Tracks 1 & 2)Early in the semester in which they hope to take their oral Ph.D. Exam, students will write three 5- to 8-page statements, with accompanying bibliographies. Each statement will focus on a pressing topic or problematic, a “deep dive” within the student’s intended field of specialization. The student will then take a 2-day written exam based on questions related to the statements and bibliographies. The field-statements and the written exam will be assessed by the student’s exam committee in order to determine whether or not the student is prepared to proceed with to the oral exam.LINGUISTICS (Track 3)Early in the semester in which they hope to take their Ph.D. Qualifying Exam, students will submit a 2nd Qualifying Paper spanning at least one sub-field of Hispanic linguistics (chosen by each student, for example, Phonology/Phonetics, Morphology, Historical Linguistics, Sociolinguistics, etc.). The topic of the paper (as opposed to the sub-field in linguistics) cannot be the same as the previous Qualifying Paper submitted for the second year review, and moreover must be of a higher caliber. The student should prepare the paper as if planning to submit it to a non-conference venue, professional linguistics journal (for example, Language Variation and Change, Language, Phonetica, Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, Journal of Language Contact, Journal of Sociolinguistics, etc.). The paper should be formatted according to the style sheet of one of these professional journal venues, and be roughly 20-50 pages long. Having submitted this second Qualifying Paper, the student will then take a 2-day written exam based on two linguistic sub-fields of the student’s choosing. Exam questions will reflect the student’s proposed reading list for each sub-field. The second Qualifying Paper and the written exams will be assessed by the student’s committee in order to determine whether or not the student is prepared to proceed to the oral portion of the QE.ProspectusOnce the Qualifying Examination has been passed and formal Advancement to Candidacy is approved by the Graduate Division, the student will submit a dissertation proposal, with selected bibliography, to the Dissertation Committee before the end of the first semester following the Qualifying Examination. It is expected that the proposal will describe the intended research, provide a basic bibliography and, if possible, set the project within current research in the field (10-15 pages on average). After examining this material, the dissertation committee will meet with the student to discuss the proposal, to set up a timetable, and to give final approval to the dissertation project. A signed copy of the report should be given to the graduate assistant for the student’s file.Dissertation Upon constituting the dissertation committee, the student will apply for Advancement to Candidacy. Doctoral students should bear in mind that it is to their advantage to be “Advanced to Candidacy” as soon as possible following completion of the Qualifying Examination, preferably by the end of the semester in which the Qualifying Examination is passed. The student will write a doctoral dissertation under the guidance of a director or co-directors and faculty committee (selected by the student and his/her Graduate Advisor and approved by the Graduate Division), embodying the results of original research on a subject chosen by the student in consultation with the dissertation director(s).Dissertation committees are made up of a minimum of three members, including one person from “outside” the Department, who serves as the Academic Senate Representative. The Chair of the student’s Qualifying Examination Committee cannot direct the dissertation.After completion of the QE by the 8th semester, students will have two years to research and write a dissertation according to the program’s normative time of six years.Dissertation in a Language other than EnglishSpecial approval from the Graduate Council is required to submit a dissertation or thesis in a language other than English. A memo from your dissertation director requesting permission to the Dean must be sent to the Graduate Division early in the first semester following the Qualifying Examination. After approval is given, an abstract in English must be included with the dissertation or thesis. Please contact the Graduate Assistant for instructions.Normal Progress Schedule“Normative Time” (NT) allowance for the program is set at six (6) years. The Normative time to Advancement to Candidacy is four (4) years (time to QE).Foreign ABD (All But Dissertation) students have a maximum of three-years (after passing QE) of waived Non-Resident Tuition (NRT) to file the dissertation. Any delay in filing will be at the student expense.SEMESTER                                            REQUIREMENT COMPLETED — ALL TRACKS   In close consultation with faculty, the student will develop a specialization in one of three tracks: Hispanic and Spanish American literature and culture, Luso-Brazilian literature and culture, or Hispanic Linguistics (Spanish, Portuguese, and Catalan). Each track will be organized around four field concepts (space, time, voice, method). Course preparation will lead to the Qualifying Examination.For admission to the Qualifying Examination, the student’s record at a minimum must show:Following the Qualifying Examination, the student will write a doctoral dissertation under the guidance of a director and a faculty committee.A three-semester sequence that introduces students to central questions and debates in literary, linguistic, and cultural studies in Spanish and Portuguese, and that assists them in the preparation of an original research paper.A.   Semester 1: Fall Colloquium (1 unit). Students are required to attend the Department’s Fall Colloquium Series, where they will be introduced to the research projects of the faculty and other graduate students and to the work of ongoing research groups.B.   Semester 2: Research Seminar I (4 units). During the spring semester of their first year, the Research Seminar will introduce entering students to graduate study in the department. The research seminar has several objectives, practical and theoretical. First, it is designed to introduce students to databases, research instruments, journals, and pertinent bibliographies in the student’s main field of interest. Second, the seminar is designed to give graduate students exposure to different genres of scholarly writing: précis, book review, scholarly article. Students will write reviews and précis of items from bibliographies drawn in their particular field.Crossing the grain of these practical questions, students will be introduced to the four categories of analysis that will be the basis of their future field statements: time, space, voice, and method. The objective is for students early on in their studies to understand the nature of these key concepts and how they can serve as guides for their studies and their research. Individual faculty members may have unique theoretical convictions about these areas, but the purpose of the seminar is to raise basic issues regarding these approaches, and to help students begin to develop fundamental theoretical questions that traverse their specific areas of inquiry. Faculty members other than the instructor in charge may be invited to participate to contribute to discussions about these four fields. Here, students will focus on how to generate fundamental theoretical questions in their respective fields while traversing the four areas of inquiry.There are many approaches to the use of these concepts. Some examples of possibilities can be found in Appendix A below.The research questions raised in Research Seminar I will be particularly fruitful in Research Seminar II when students write a major paper.C.   Semester 3. Research Seminar II (4 units). The third semester is a writing workshop designed to assist students in writing an original research paper. Here, students will be invited to develop a research idea conceived in one of their other courses taken during the first year of coursework and expand it into a major paper.During the third semester, the Research Seminar will serve as a forum for students to meet and discuss their projects. It will also serve as an organizational vehicle for their research, establishing, for example, deadlines for revision and drafts. The course will be taught and coordinated by a faculty member. In the process of conducting research and writing, students will avail themselves of advice and constructive criticism from faculty and peers. The objective of this course is to train students in developing article- or chapter-length critical writing early during their training. Students will present short versions of their papers in the Fall Colloquium Series.Over the course of the first year, the faculty will help students identify professors in this and in other departments at Berkeley whose research interests coincide with those of the students. If students have difficulties identifying faculty with common research interests, the Head Graduate Adviser will assist them. The goal here is to familiarize students with faculty members who might serve as mentors at the 4th semester Second Year Review (see below).The Mentoring Committee will provide guidance to students as they move into the fourth semester of the program. Mentors will help students chart a course of study that best addresses individual goals and interests and will be charged with ensuring that students address core issues such as comprehensiveness, depth of knowledge, and critical imagination. In addition, mentors help students think about the fields and texts they will develop for their Qualifying Examination. The Mentoring Committee is charged with ensuring that students maximize their preparation and training.Constitution of the Mentoring Committee and Second Year Review Approval: By October 15th of the second year, students will have constituted a Mentoring Committee comprised of three faculty members in the department plus the appropriate graduate adviser (if not already a member), ex officio.Early in the fourth semester, students who wish to be candidates for the M.A. degree, by thesis or comprehensive examination, must announce their intentions. This option does not preclude continuing to the Ph.D. degree. Students must submit form to the Graduate Assistant by the 1st week of the semester.Also early in the fourth semester (by Mid-February), members of the Mentoring Committee will meet with each student to evaluate that student’s progress and map out a plan for the student’s remaining work. The review will also allow students and faculty to discuss preparation for the four field statements and bibliographies that will be required for the QEs.At least two weeks before the scheduled review, the student should submit a one–page statement to the Mentoring Committee, indicating courses taken and future course plans, languages chosen, and an indication of measures planned for attaining competence. The student should also indicate what work remains to be done to satisfy course requirements. Finally, students should indicate specific intellectual areas of interest that might lead to the four field statements of the qualifying examination.The review is designed to be diagnostic in nature. In order to offer a proper and thorough evaluation of the student, the committee will consider all materials it regards as relevant to the student’s case. The committee will issue a report that constitutes a binding recommendation concerning future course work and advancement toward the degree.In the case that a student’s progress in the program is not sufficiently promising, the committee will recommend to the full faculty of the department that the student not continue. In such instances, the student will have the option of exiting the program with a terminal MA degree, to be granted after successful completion of Plan I or Plan II requirements.All students, regardless of their prior studies and their ultimate areas of specialization, should seek preparation in the breadth of Hispanic and Luso-Brazilian literatures and/or Linguistics, in their historical, geographical, and cultural diversity. The most common way of demonstrating preparation in these areas is to take graduate courses offered in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese.Three major concentrations are available: Hispanic (Peninsular, Spanish American literatures and cultures), Portuguese (Lusophone literatures and cultures), and Hispanic Linguistics (Spanish, Portuguese, or Catalan). A minimum of 10 courses will be required, with the expectation that most students will take far more than the minimum, under guidance from the Mentoring Committee. Of the 10 minimum courses, 8 must be graduate seminars taken within the department. Two additional courses, taken within or outside the department, will also be required. Advanced undergraduate courses will count in this last instance. All entering students must also enroll in the Fall Colloquium as a 1-unit course.Track 1 (Hispanic and Spanish American literatures and cultures):Track 2 (Luso-Brazilian literatures and cultures):Track 3 (Hispanic Linguistics):It is expected that the student will complete these course requirements and the foreign language examination no later than the 6th semester in order to be prepared for the Qualifying Examinations no later than the 8th semester.All courses used to satisfy a requirement or courses taken toward study program, must be taken by a letter grade option only. Passing grade for graduate students is a B or better.In the cases of students who do not meet the standards of the research seminar and/or produce unacceptable work in the seminars during the first year, the Head Graduate adviser in consultation with the relevant teaching faculty will request that the Graduate Division place them on probation. Students will have the third semester to return to good standing.Students who have fulfilled equivalent courses at another institution as part of a graduate program of study may petition to be exempted from no more than two course requirements.Year 1: Students are advised to think about the comprehensive training requirements and to get to know a broad range of faculty in the department. Fall Semester: Students enroll in the Department’s Fall Colloquium and selected Fall courses. Spring Semester: Students will participate in the Research Seminar. The appropriate graduate adviser will advise students on courses to take during the second year. Students are advised to think about an appropriate course from which their major paper will derive.Year 2: During the second year, students (in consultation with the Head Graduate Adviser) constitute their mentoring committees, and will continue to make progress toward fulfilling their course requirements. Fall Semester: Students will participate in the Research Seminar in order to develop their major paper, and will also enroll in selected courses. Spring Semester: The mentoring committee will convene in the 4th semester for the Second Year Review.Year 3: All course requirements and language requirements must be completed by the 6th semester.  Students should start working on the q-e  reading list during the summer.Year 4: During the fourth year students will take their final courses, polish the field statements and bibliographies, and prepare for their Qualifying Examination to be taken no later than the 8th semester.Two foreign languages pertinent to the specialization. Of these, Spanish for students of Luso-Brazilian studies or linguistics and Portuguese for students of Hispanic literatures or linguistics are required, and must be fulfilled through graduate course work taught in the pertinent language (not English). The second language requirement must be satisfied by passing the Language Reading Examinations administered by the Department (usually during the fifth week of each semester). The requirement should be satisfied as early as possible in the student’s doctoral career and must be completed prior to Admission to the Qualifying Examination.Field statements (no more than 20 pages each) will define and discuss a set of problems within the four general categories below, and will include the primary and secondary bibliographies most pertinent to each subject. In the aggregate, the four lists should demonstrate a broad knowledge of Hispanic or Luso-Brazilian literary or linguistic studies, and mastery of a broad but coherent area of knowledge. Students are strongly encouraged to incorporate a transatlantic component into at least one of the field statements. Bibliographies will at a minimum include 15 titles and will be prepared in consultation with appropriate faculty.Please consult Appendix A, section 1 for further guidance on how to define these fields.When ready (usually by spring of the third year) and under the guidance of the exam committee, the student will begin to prepare the bibliographies for the four field statements in preparation for an oral examination on selected fields of specialization. Reading lists must be finalized and approved by the 8th week of the semester prior to beginning to write their field statements. Students considering presenting themselves for the Qualifying Examination must alert their Exam Committee and the appropriate graduate adviser no later than the tenth week of the preceding semester. The Graduate Advisor will have reviewed the student’s complete record, including completion of all requirements stipulated in the fourth semester review, including foreign language competence, in the semester prior to the Qualifying Examination. The student must also complete an application form with the Graduate Assistant at least four weeks before the exam. Students may not take the Qualifying Examination if they have more than one Incomplete.Examination committees (constituted the semester prior to Q-E) are made up of five members, including at least one person from outside the Department. One member of the committee will chair the exam; this person may not direct the dissertation. All members of the committee, including the “outside” member, must be Academic Senate members.” All five members of the Qualifying examination committee must be present and voting at the oral examination.Final composition of the Qualifying Examination Committee is approved by the Head Graduate Adviser. The finalized field statements (reading lists included) will be turned in no later than one-month before the date set for the oral examination. The field statements will allow the Examination Committee to evaluate the students’ ability to:The student must satisfactorily fulfill the requirement of the four field statements and bibliographies in order to take the QE examination.Faculty approval of these statements and bibliographies by the five-member examining committee will be necessary in order for the student to take the Qualifying Examination. This is a three-hour oral examination that will focus on field statements and bibliographies. Faculty evaluation of student performance on the QEs will consist of a brief written narrative to be retained in the graduate assistant’s office in the department.The Graduate Assistant will schedule the date by which the field statements will be turned in as well as the date of the oral examination (one month later).The student will submit a dissertation proposal, with selected bibliography, to the Dissertation Committee before the end of the first semester following the Qualifying Examination. It is expected that the proposal will describe the intended research, establish the textual corpus to be examined, provide a basic bibliography and, if possible, set the project within current research in the field (10-15 pages on average). After examining this material, the dissertation committee will meet with the student to discuss the proposal, to set up a timetable, and to give final approval to the dissertation project. A signed copy of the report should be given to the graduate assistant for the student’s file.Students must constitute their dissertation committees in order to complete advancement to candidacy.Once the Qualifying Examination has been passed and formal Advancement to Candidacy is approved by the Graduate Division, the student will write a doctoral dissertation under the guidance of a director and faculty committee (selected by the student and his/her Graduate Advisor and approved by the Graduate Division), embodying the results of original research on a subject chosen by the student in consultation with the dissertation director.Dissertation committees are made up of a minimum of three members, including one person from outside the Department. The outside member serves as the Dean’s representative and must be a member of the Berkeley Academic Senate. The Chair of the student’s Qualifying Examination Committee cannot direct the dissertation.Should the need for a change in membership of the committee arise, students should speak both with their dissertation director and the Graduate Adviser in the Department. To effect a change, a form entitled “Request for Change in Higher Degree Committee” must be completed and signed by the Graduate Adviser (after having informed all parties involved in the change, including those that have been dropped from the committee). This form is then submitted to the Graduate Division for review and approval.After obtaining the dissertation director’s approval of the proposed topic, the student will complete the “Application for Advancement to Candidacy for the Ph.D.,” a form available from the Graduate Assistant in the Department, for approval by the Graduate Division. Students should bear in mind that it is to their advantage to be “Advanced to Candidacy” as soon as possible following completion of the Qualifying Examination (see Normal Progress Schedule).Special approval from the Graduate Council is required to submit a dissertation or thesis in a language other than English. A memo from your dissertation director requesting permission to the Dean must be sent to the Graduate Division the semester prior to filing the dissertation. After approval is given, an abstract in English must be included with the dissertation or thesis. Requests for approval should be submitted to Graduate Degrees and Petitions, 318 Sproul Hall. Please notify the Graduate Assistant the semester prior to filing the dissertation to petition approval.“Normative Time” (NT) allowance for the program is set at six (6) years. The Normative time to Advancement to Candidacy is 4 years (time to Q-E). Progress toward Normative Time is required for Dean’s Fellowships.* Please Note: Foreign ABD students have a maximum of three-years (after passing Q-E) of waived Non-Resident Tuition (NRT) to file the dissertation. Any delay in filing will be at the student expense.Working in close consultation with a Mentoring Committee, each student will define four fields of study within the following categories: Time, Space, Voice, and Theory/Methodology. Each field will involve a specific bibliography elaborated by the student. Taken together, these fields and their respective bibliographies should reflect the student’s broad area of concentration as well as the chosen specializations within that concentration, and should also chart a direction towards dissertation research.There are no uniform or standard definitions of these fields. Each student will arrive at such a definition taking into account his or her own interests and the advise of the Mentoring Committee. The following list offers some examples of field definitions. The list should not be taken as a complete list of options. Rather, the examples below are meant to serve as inspiration as students begin to think about how to define their individual interests.Examples of field definitionsA.
Field 1 (Time): 19-20th century (texts written during this period)
Field 2 (Space): Spanish America (presumably a diachronic selection of texts)
Field 3 (Voice): A literary genre (i.e. the novel)
Field 4 (Theory/Method): NarratologyB.
Field 1: Early Modern Era
Field 2: Empire/imperialism
Field 3: The chronicle
Field 4: Authorship and authorityC.
Field 1: time and narrative
Field 2: the city
Field 3: film
Field 4: semioticsD.
Field 1: The idea of modernity
Field 2: The nation
Field 3: Public intellectuals
Field 4: Orality and literatureE.
Field 1: The time of transitions
Field 2: Public/Private Spheres
Field 3: Voices of memory
Field 4: The bodyF.
Field 1: Historical linguistics
Field 2: Regional/social variations of language
Field 3: Literary representation of language variationField 4: Linguistic theorySome additional notes:Section 1: Modified Master’s DegreeThe modified Ph.D. program in Hispanic Languages and Literatures eliminates the M.A. examination as a prerequisite for proceeding to the Qualifying Examinations. However, some students may present themselves for the Master’s (Plan I or II) for any of the following reasons: to give evidence of a university degree short of completing the doctorate; to benefit from the added opportunity for evaluation of student progress that an MA exam or thesis provides; or, in cases in which a student’s progress in the program is not adequate as determined by the Permission to Continue review (in the fourth semester), to exit the program with a terminal MA degree no later than the 5th semester.In all cases, students will have the option of receiving the MA degree after successful completion of Plan I or Plan II requirements:Plan I (coursework and thesis): Students must complete 6 graduate courses in the dept and 2 additional courses that can be either upper division or graduate courses, within or outside the department. Distribution of these course requirements depends on the track:Students must also complete one foreign language requirement, demonstrated either by examination or by one graduate course in the language.Students will write a thesis, between 50 and 75 pages long, in which they advance an original idea and demonstrate a solid knowledge of secondary bibliography. The evaluating committee will consist of three faculty members: the chair and two readers.Plan II (coursework and a comprehensive final examination): Students must complete 6 graduate courses in the dept and 2 additional courses that can be either upper division or graduate courses, within or outside the department. Distribution of these course requirements depends on the track:Students must also complete one foreign language requirement, demonstrated either by examination or by one graduate course in the language.Students will take a comprehensive written examination based on a reading list of at least thirty works that reflect the historical, geographic, and cultural diversity of Hispanic and/or Luso-Brazilian literature as well as linguistic and/or literary theory. The reading list is to be devised by the students in consultation with the three members of the examining committee and the appropriate graduate advisor. The examination will be three one-hour long questions. Students planning to take the M.A. exam should consult with the Head Graduate Adviser for a sample reading list.Website address for RLLThis degree program should not be confused with the Hispanic Languages and Literatures (HLL) Ph.D. program. Students should not apply to this program unless they are committed to extensive training in French and Italian in addition to Spanish or Portuguese as part of their degree. Students should become thoroughly acquainted with both degree programs (HLL and RLL) and determine which program best reflects their objectives. Any questions concerning the two degree programs should be directed to the staff Graduate Adviser before applying.———————–The Ph.D. in Romance Languages and Literatures (RLL) is a doctorate in three Romance languages and literatures taught in the Departments of French, Italian Studies, and Spanish and Portuguese, prepared with emphasis in one of the three. Students may opt for either a literature track or a linguistic trackThe mission of the RLL program is:• To take a multilingual approach to language and literature.
• To combine literary and linguistic study.
• To offer flexibility in the design of students’ programs: the unity of a common heritage and common evolution of the Romance family allows diversity in topics and approaches.
• To train Romance scholars of linguistics, literature and culture who can take jobs in Romance language departments, single language departments, or linguistics departments.Overview of Course of Study:Students present a combination of courses and personal study to satisfy the requirements of the particular track to which they have been admitted. Although there are some explicit requirements (see below), there is no minimum number of courses required to sit for the Qualifying Examination. Instead, each student’s precise course of study is developed in close consultation with the RLL Graduate Advisor for Spanish & Portuguese.In the Literature track, students will gain a detailed knowledge of Spanish or Portuguese literature.They will also develop sufficient familiarity with Italian and French literature so as to allow them to do the focused comparative work necessary for the preparation of the Qualifying Examination. Moreover, students will develop both historical and practical expertise in both Latin and in two Romance languages other than Spanish or Portuguese.In the Linguistics track, students will gain in-depth knowledge of the structure and history (internal and external) of Spanish or Portuguese. They will also develop expertise in the linguistics of two other Romance languages and specialize in an area of general or applied linguistics. This, together with some basic training in Latin, will prepare them for the comparative Romance linguistic work that is required for the Qualifying Examination.Requirement for Admission, emphasis Spanish or Portuguese:Literature track: B.A. degree or equivalent with studies in Spanish or Portuguese approximately corresponding to the undergraduate major at Berkeley. In addition, we expect of applicants to the Literature track either a) advanced competency in two of the languages the applicant intends to study in the RLL doctoral program, or b) advanced competency in one such language and reasonable preparation in two others. By reasonable preparation we mean either one year’s study of Latin or two years’ study of a modern language. By advanced competency we mean ability to participate fully in a graduate seminar conducted in the modern language in question. Writing samples will be requested of languages in which advanced competency is claimed, and a telephone interview may also be required. Transcripts will provide evidence of reasonable preparation.Linguistics track: B.A. degree or equivalent with studies in Spanish or Portuguese or Linguistics approximately corresponding to the undergraduate major at Berkeley. In addition, we expect of applicants to the Linguistics track either a) advanced competency in Spanish or Portuguese and in linguistics or b) advanced competency in Spanish or Portuguese, reasonable preparation in linguistics and in one other Romance language. Note that for the purposes of admission to the linguistics track, this other Romance language may be Italian or French, or it may come from the broader Romance family (e.g., Catalan, Sardinian, Rumanian, Latin etc.). By advanced competency in linguistics we mean ability to participate fully in a graduate seminar in the linguistics department. By reasonable preparation we mean either one year’s study of Latin or linguistics, or two years’ study of a modern Romance language. Writing samples will be requested of areas in which advanced competency is claimed, and a telephone interview may also be required. Transcripts will provide evidence of reasonable preparation.General Requirements and Study Program (both tracks):1.  Screening Interview. Early in their first semester of enrollment, the RLL Executive Committee will meet with students to evaluate their previous preparation, to familiarize them with the program, and to determine an appropriate plan of study for completion of the degree requirements during the first two years. The Committee will then prepare a brief record of the interview for delivery to the RLL Graduate Advisor for Spanish or Portuguese, indicating any special provisions or studies that must be completed before the student’s admission to the Qualifying Examination.2.  Advanced Language Competency Timetable. Because of the nature of the RLL program, students are required to achieve language competency above and beyond that attested by passing the standard Graduate Division language requirements (see section 3, below). The following timetables will assure that students will be able to do advanced work in the three RLL departments.Literature track:
• By the end of semester 5 the student will have finished 1 year of Latin and will have the necessary competency to participate fully in graduate seminars taught in a target language of two of the participating departments. The student will have made substantial progress towards acquiring a modern Romance language associated with the third participating department. This will be established by the 5th semester review (see section 5 below).• By the end of semester 7, the student will either have taken two upper division undergraduate courses in that third language, or will have taken a graduate seminar covering literature that the student reads in the original language (although the seminar does not need to be taught in the language in question.)Linguistics track:
• By the end of semester 5 the student will have finished 1 year of Latin and will have the necessary competency to participate fully in graduate seminars taught in the target language of one of the participating departments and in linguistics. In addition, the student will have made good progress in another Romance language and begun study of a third. Again, these can be any member of the wider family of Romance languages including for example Occitan, Sardinian and Neo-Latin. By good progress we mean good reading knowledge and this is to be established at the 5th semester review (see section 5 below).• By semester 7, the student will have acquired sufficient knowledge of the second Romance language in order to use it for graduate-level linguistic analysis. This may be done as part of a graduate seminar in a language department, as an independent study with a faculty member, or by making significant use of the language in a linguistics seminar. (Please note that analyzing the language in the RLL C201/202 seminar will not be considered sufficient.) The student will also have attained good reading knowledge in the third Romance language by this point, that is, sufficient for graduate-level linguistic analysis by the time of the qualifying exam.3.  Foreign Language Requirements. The Graduate Division requires that foreign language skills be demonstrated in one of two ways. (RLL students may choose which of their languages they would like to use for the completion of this requirement). The requirements should be satisfied as early as possible in the student’s doctoral career, following first registration, and must be completed prior to the term proposed for the Qualifying Examination.Option I requires students to demonstrate reading knowledge of two languages. This can be done be either passing a translation exam in both languages or passing a translation exam in one language and completing coursework in the second language.  Option I translation exams consist of at least a 300-word passage translated into English with the use of a dictionary. Students who choose to demonstrate reading knowledge of their second language through coursework may either (a) complete a four-semester (or six-quarter) course sequence with an average grade of B or better or (b) complete (with a grade of B or better) an upper division foreign language course that requires a four-semester (or six-quarter) course sequence as a prerequisite.Option II requires students to demonstrate an exceptionally thorough reading knowledge and an adequate knowledge of the grammatical structure of one language. Students can demonstrate such knowledge in one of two ways: (1) By passing a translation exam in which the student translates a passage of about 1,000 words into English without the use of a dictionary; (2) By earning a B or better in two upper-division foreign language courses in which the material is read in the original language.4.  Core courses. All RLL students must pass, with a grade of B or better, two core courses:Students should satisfy these requirements as early as possible in their doctoral career, bearing in mind that they are unlikely to be offered every year.5.  Progress Review. Early in the fifth semester, the Executive Committee will evaluate the student’s progress and advise him/her regarding future courses, preparation for the Qualifying Exam, and possible composition of the Qualifying Exam Committee. Students will prepare the following for the progress review meeting:6.  Qualifying Examination Fields, Topics, and Reading Lists. Following the 5th semester review, students should start meeting with the anticipated members of the Qualifying Examination Committee in order to define the fields and topics they wish to cover on their Exam. In the course of these meetings, students will develop field and topic statements and reading lists, which must be submitted to the Executive Committee no later than the twelfth week of the sixth semester.7.  Qualifying Examination. When the student and his/her advisor agree that preparation is sufficient for the Qualifying Examination, the advisor and the Graduate Student Services Advisor of the department concerned, with suggestions from the student, will determine the Qualifying Examination Committee and inform the Chair of the RLL Executive Committee of its formation.The Qualifying Examination committee is composed of five members: three representing the main field of focus, a designated “outside” member representing a Romance language besides Spanish or Portuguese (and who may also be a member of the Romance Languages and Literature program), and one other member appropriate to the topics on the exam. All five members of the Qualifying Examination committee must be present and voting at the oral examination. All members of the committee, including the chair and “outside” member (the person who represents the Graduate Dean and Graduate Council) must be Academic Senate members.The Qualifying Examination has a written and an oral component. The written section, normally administered in the tenth week of the eighth semester, consists of three 8-hour exams.Literature track: One exam will cover a major field in Romance Literatures and involve at least two languages. (Examples might be: the development of the novel; the lyric tradition; literary modernism; etc.) The other two exams should be on topics individually formulated by each student. The combined reading lists for these two topics should cover all three languages in the student’s program. This structure leaves open the possibility that one topic might be focused on a single literature. (Examples of topics might be the work of a single major author; literary relations between France and Latin America in the twentieth century; immigrant literature; baroque theater.) Historical coverage is highly recommended.Linguistics track: One exam will cover a major field in Romance Linguistics and involve three languages. (Examples might be word order in Romance, sound change in Romance, or the classification of the Romance languages). A second exam will cover an area in general linguistics (phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, sociolinguistics), applied linguistics (second language acquisition, the application of linguistics to literature, translation studies), or an appropriate topic in Romance philology. A third exam will cover a specialized topic involving one, two, or three languages (e.g., borrowing from Latin into Spanish or Portuguese in the late Middle Ages, the tu and vous address forms in contemporary Spanish or Portuguese, regional variation in contemporary Italian). The three examination fields and topics should fit together coherently, will display emphasis on Spanish or Portuguese, and will very preferably contain a historical component.8.  Dissertation. Once the Qualifying Examination is successfully completed, the student will arrange with a faculty member to direct the dissertation and, by consultation with him/her, propose the remaining members. The Chair and designated “outside” member (representing a Romance language other than Spanish or Portuguese) must be members of the Academic Senate. The dissertation will embody the results of original research on a subject chosen in consultation with the director. The Chair of the Qualifying Examination Committee cannot direct the dissertation.After obtaining the dissertation director’s approval of the proposed topic, the student completes the “Application for Advancement to Candidacy for the Ph.D.,” available in the Spanish and Portuguese Graduate Office, for approval by the Graduate Division on behalf of the Graduate Council. Doctoral students should bear in mind that it is to their advantage to be “Advanced to Candidacy” as soon as possible following completion of the Qualifying Examination (see Normal Progress Schedule).Prospectus: Students are required to complete a fifteen- to twenty-page dissertation prospectus (including bibliography), to be presented to the student’s dissertation committee no later than three months after the Qualifying Exam.Should the need for a change in membership of the committee arise, students should speak both with their dissertation director and the Head Graduate Advisor in their Department. To effect a change, a form entitled “Request for Change in Higher Degree Committee” must be completed and signed by the Head Graduate Advisor (after having informed all parties involved in the change). This form is then submitted to the Graduate Division for review and approval.9. Dissertations in a Language other than English. Special approval from the Graduate Division, acting for the Graduate Council, is required to submit a dissertation in a language other than English. If approval is given, an abstract in English must be included with the finished work.10.  Academic Progress (both tracks). The timetable for completion of degree requirements is as follows: By the end of the sixth semester, students will have submitted field and topic statements and reading lists for Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations. Over the course of the next two semesters, students prepare for and take the Qualifying Examinations and apply for advancement to candidacy for the doctoral degree. (Note as well that all languages requirements must be fulfilled before the beginning of the semester in which the Qualifying Examinations are taken.) Doctoral candidacy lasts for two years after advancement, although students are eligible for an additional two year grace period before candidacy lapses (see Length of Time in Advanced-to-Candidacy Status).“Normative Time” (NT) allowance for the program is set at six (6) years. The Normative time to Advancement to Candidacy is 4 years (time to Q-E).* Please Note: Foreign ABD students have a maximum of three-years (after passing Q-E) of waived Non-Resident Tuition (NRT) to file the dissertation. Any delay in filing will be at the student expense.Suggested Progress Schedule:  Students are eligible to do honors work within the Department of Spanish & Portuguese if they have completed at least two semesters of work at Berkeley with an overall grade-point average of 3.3 and a grade-point average of at least 3.6 in those courses taken within the major. Students must complete two honors courses, H195A (1.5 units) and H195B (1.5 units), in two successive semesters, and will write a thesis under the supervision of an appropriate departmental faculty member over the course of two successive semesters. A letter grade, reflecting progress, will be given after the first semester. H195A/B will not count toward the required upper-division work in the major.Department Procedures: Before the semester in which you intend to begin the honors program, please contact the Undergraduate Advisor to verify eligibility for honors work and to discuss the process: spanua@berkeley.edu.¡Cómo, hermanos humanos,
no deciros que ya no puedo y
ya no puedo con tanto cajón,
tanto minuto, tanta
lagartija y tanta
inversión, tanto lejos y tanta sed de sed!
Señor Ministro de Salud; ¿qué hacer?
!Ah! desgraciadamente, hombres humanos,
hay, hermanos, muchísimo que hacer.César Vallejo, “Los Nueve Monstruos” (fragment)As faculty, graduate students, and staff of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at UC Berkeley, we are taking stock of the new political situation that has emerged on our national horizon and, although it is perhaps too early to predict how this will unfold in coming years, we are all the same deeply aggrieved. That said, we will not allow these days of sadness to linger as a private experience; rather, we are prepared to take an activist stance in order to defend our community as a whole, and especially the many immigrants who form part and continue to build it.From the historical situation that our discipline allows, as Hispanists and Luso-Brazilianists, we know of dictatorships, political persecutions, a silenced press and censorship; we know of the curtailment of human and civil rights, the threats to citizens and the suppression of rule of law; we know of a broad community of intellectuals from Spain, Portugal, and Latin America who at different moments in the past were forced to abandon their homes and reconstitute their lives in this country and in this Department in particular. Now it is the moral and ethical imperative of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese to stand once again alongside the new generations of exiles and immigrants, those who constitute our work place at Berkeley and who seek a safe place in which to learn.We are a single community joined together regardless of place of origin, ethnicity, race, religion, gender or sexual choice, and we are committed to help each other in intellectual pursuits and other struggles, which are effectively the struggles of all of us in current times. We want Dwinelle Hall to be regarded as a safe space for dialogue just as we want to join together in order to imagine a future in which all of our contributions are respected and valued.Please continue to count on us; our doors are open to all. We will begin using this web site to post relevant links that are pertinent to the new situation that we may be facing. Por ahora, adelante!Ignacio Navarrete, Chair
Diego Arévalo Viveros
Amelia Barili
Emilie Bergmann
Justin Berner
Jacqueline Bialostozky
Yesenia Blanco
Molly E. Borowitz
Megan Briggs Magnant
Natalia Brizuela
Jenny Cole
Justin Davidson
Catarina de Morais Gama
Ivonne del Valle
Jorge Díaz-Vélez
Daylet Domínguez
Clèlia Donovan
Mônica Gimenes Hernández
Azucena Hernández Ramírez
Miriam Hernández Rodríguez
Michael Iarocci
Holly Jackson
Mia G. Lilly
Ivett López Malagamba
Sebastião E. Macedo
Carlos Macías Prieto
Lorena Mancilla
Victoria Martínez Robertson
Francine Masiello
Delia Neyra Tercero
María Camila Nieto
Ana Belén Redondo Campillos
Yairamarén Román Maldonado
Alexandra Saum-Pascual
Candace Slater
Donna Southard
Estelle Tarica
Ana Lucía Tello
Jenelle Thomas
Félix Treviño
Víctor Quiroz Ciriaco
Dexter Zavalza Hough-SneeInformation Posts (11/14/16):Note that the new contract between the UAW and the University defends the admission of undocumented graduate students:
http://www.uaw2865.org/resources/current-uaw-contract/#appendixhJanet Napolitano committed nine million dollars to continue financing undocumented students: https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/press-room/uc-president-napolitano-proposes-multi-year-support-undocumented-studentshttp://undocu.berkeley.edu/financial-aid-for-undocumented-students/On the obligation of universities to offer sanctuary space: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/colleges-and-universities-should-become-sanctuaries_us_58291be8e4b02b1f5257a57b?For questions regarding DACA, now more than ever, students and parents should contact the following: http://bit.ly/uspattorney, email plal@ebclc.org  or call 510-269-6675 to make an appointment for an immigration screening.We ask that those who support the protection of undocumented students to sign the following petition currently in circulation among faculty and students at Berkeley: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Kfnc2CfrQFqp5pBkmImJN5zQsicVUTtzqErn0tOA5kA/viewform?edit_requested=trueIt seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.Congratulations are extended to Poema Quesado Valente  and Felix Treviño  for passing the Qualifying Examination in Hispanic Languages and Literatures this semester-fall 2017. Congratulations to the following students for completing the Ph.D. in Hispanic Languages and Literatures this fall semester 2017.Jacqueline Bialostozky with a dissertation titled “Aesthetics of the Surface: Post-1960s Latin America Queer Rewritings of the Baroque”Dexter Zavalza Hough-Snee with a dissertation titled “Alienation in the Andes: Labor and Cultural Disenfranchisement in Colonial Peru, 1570-1640”************************  We note with great concern the proposal currently before the US Congress that aims to tax graduate students on tuition remissions.According to the Chronicle of Higher Education:Nationwide, about 55 percent of all graduate students had adjusted gross incomes of $20,000 or less… and nearly 87 percent reported incomes of $50,000 or less. At the same time, master’s-degree students received tuition waivers averaging nearly $11,000, and doctoral students got waivers averaging more than $13,600.To raise taxes on this population would dramatically reduce the number of students who can afford higher education, and in the absence of additional funding it would especially disadvantage students who have historically been underrepresented within graduate programs in the US.We stand firmly with the 30+ national learned societies that have called for opposition to the proposal.Congratulations to Prof. Emilie Bergmann, on the publication of her volume (co-edited with Stacy Schlau): The Routledge Research Companion to the Works of Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz.  »  read more  »The department is very pleased to announce that Marlena Gittleman, a graduate student in Comparative Literature and a former student of Catalan 102 in our department, has been selected to participate in the Emerging Translator Mentorship Program co-sponsored by the Catalan institution Institut Ramon Llull and the American Literary Translators Association (ALTA).  »  read more  »As faculty in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at Berkeley, we are saddened and deeply troubled by the announcement that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, also known as the Dreamers Act, is scheduled to be suspended.We echo UC President Janet Napolitano’s call for “Congress to immediately pass bipartisan legislation that would provide a permanent solution” for Dreamers by charting “a secure path toward citizenship,” and we applaud her commitment to maintaining structures of support for DACA students throughout the UC system.We reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that the Department of Spanish and Portuguese will remain a welcoming place for all students in the months ahead, and we stand firmly with Dreamers, their families, and their friends during these difficult times.The department is very pleased to welcome Tom McEnaney as new member of the department.  Professor McEnaney comes to us from Cornell University as an advanced Assistant Professor. His research interests include the history of media and technology, Argentine, Cuban, and U.S. literature, sound studies, linguistic anthropology, computational (digital) humanities and new media studies. His new book, Acoustic Properties: Radio, Narrative, and the New Neighborhood of the Americas (FlashPoints at Northwestern University Press, 2017) investigates the co-evolution of radio and the novel in Argentina, Cuba, and the United States. Professor McEnaney will be teaching in the Departments of Spanish and Portuguese and Comparative Literature.The Department of Spanish and Portuguese is pleased to welcome distinguished writer, translator and teacher Achy Obejas as our Writer-in-Residence for Spring 2017. She will be teaching a beginning workshop for translators, which will include critical readings, in-class exercises, peer critique and discussion.   »  read more  »Prof. Saum-Pascual’s exhibit No Legacy || Literatura electrónica, that was on display at UC Berkeley last year, is opening this week in San Francisco at the California College of the Arts. The show will be open February 23 – May 5. Please click here to visit the CCA event page with more information.Filmmaker and Artist, Paraguay
In residence January 29 – February 9We are delighted to welcome Paz Encina on her first visit to the US. A Paraguayan artist, filmmaker, humanist, and committed intellectual, Encina is the UC Regents’ Lecturer of 2017.   »  read more  »  »  read more  »The sequence of undergraduate programs of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese is designed to gain competence in written and spoken Spanish and/or Portuguese. This is accomplished through both the formal study of the linguistic structure and social history of one or both of these languages and a critical understanding of the development and achievements of their literatures in the Old World and in the New. The department’s policy is to maintain a balanced strength between language, literature, and linguistics, as well as between Peninsular and Latin American facets of a unified field. The final outcome is in the students’ capacity for advanced study and independent research, as well as practical knowledge leading to a diverse set of employment opportunities and activities with real-world impact.The major in Spanish and Portuguese is ideal for students seeking preparation for: Learning Goals for the Spanish and Portuguese Program:Common to all four options is the goal of providing our undergraduate majors with a high level of proficiency in understanding, speaking, reading, and writing Spanish and/or Portuguese, in varying cultural contexts, with increasing emphasis on the latter two skills as students progress through the major. While lower division prerequisites emphasize the acquisition of all four skills, upper-division coursework approaches these aims through the process of addressing questions of linguistics and literary analysis in the full chronological and geographic range of Hispanic cultures. Each of the five options has a core writing component, and each includes courses designated as writing-intensive. The upper-division writing courses emphasize skill development in a subject-matter context. We see the research, organizational, and argumentative aspects of writing as skills that transfer across languages (thus Spanish and Portuguese as liberal arts majors), and also as markers of high proficiency in the target language.It is important for students to have access to information regarding the areas of expertise, in not only geographic regions but also in the fields of literature and linguistics that enable them to become critical readers and thinkers. Students will learn to organize research projects using the full range of available sources, construct arguments, summarize positions, and present them in coherent, convincing written and oral form. The goals of our program distinguish between knowledge and skills:KnowledgeSkillsSpanish 1 SyllabusSpanish 2 SyllabusSpanish 3 SyllabusSpanish 4 SyllabusFormal study abroad is considered to be an intrinsic part of the language-learning process, and we actively encourage our students to participate in the variety of programs that are offered here at Berkeley.  In Spain, Mexico, Costa Rica and Chile, there are program options that are suitable for students who have an intermediate-level language background, as well as opportunities for those who are fully fluent. In Brazil, there are program options for students with no Portuguese, as well as for those who are fluent. EAP offers summer, semester, and classic full academic year immersion programs.Students with existing language ability may pursue their major studies at some of the most prestigious institutions in Latin America or Spain.Three program types are available:Interested students should obtain the relevant information early in the semester preceding the one in which they plan to go abroad from:Berkeley Study Abroad
 160 Stephens Hall
 (510) 642-1356
 studyabroad@berkeley.eduClick here for the EAP Language Prerequisite GuideThe Department of Spanish & Portuguese offers four options for the major. Listed below are the prerequisites and the requirements for each option. If you are undecided about which major option to choose, please meet with the Undergraduate Advisor to discuss which might be best for you.All courses within the major must be taken for a letter grade, and a major GPA of 2.0 must be maintained.PREREQUISITES 
Options A, C, and D:  Spanish 1, 2, 3, 4 (or their equivalents), and 25
Option B:  Portuguese 50 (formerly Portuguese 101 A/B and 100), and Spanish 25 if student wishes to complete upper-division coursework in Spanish.OPTION A:  THE LANGUAGES, LITERATURES & CULTURES OF THE SPANISH-SPEAKING WORLD
This track is recommended for students interested in the languages, literatures, and cultures of the Hispanic World on both sides of the Atlantic.REQUIREMENTS:
▪ Spanish 104A or Spanish 107A
▪ Spanish 104B or Spanish 107B
▪ Spanish 135W
▪ Three elective courses in Spanish or Spanish-American Literature/Culture
▪ Two elective courses in any upper division Spanish, Portuguese, or Catalan topicOPTION B:  THE LANGUAGES, LITERATURES & CULTURES OF THE PORTUGUESE-SPEAKING WORLD
This track is recommended for students interested in the language, literature, and culture of the Portuguese-speaking world, and may include up to two upper division electives in Spanish.REQUIREMENTS:
▪ Portuguese 102
▪ Portuguese 103
▪ Portuguese 104
▪ Portuguese 107A or 107B
▪ Four upper division electives: A minimum of two courses on Portuguese/Brazilian topics, and a maximum of two courses on Spanish/Spanish-American Literature/Culture, Hispanic Linguistics, or Advanced CompositionOPTION C:  LATIN AMERICAN LANGUAGES, LITERATURES, AND CULTURES
This track is recommended for students interested in the languages, literatures, and cultures of both Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking Latin America. It requires coursework in both Spanish and Portuguese, which makes possible comparative approaches to the culture, literature, and history of the region.REQUIREMENTS:
▪ Portuguese 103
▪ Portuguese 104 or 128
▪ Spanish 104A or 104B
▪ Spanish 135W
▪ Two electives in Spanish, Spanish-American, Brazilian, or Portuguese Literature/Culture
▪ Two electives in any upper division Spanish or Portuguese topicOPTION D:  HISPANIC LANGUAGES, LINGUISTICS, AND BILINGUALISM
This track is recommended for students interested in the linguistic structure of Spanish and/or Portuguese, bilingualism in society, and/or a career in K-12 foreign language teaching, as well as for future graduate students in (Hispanic) Linguistics.REQUIREMENTS:
▪ Spanish 100
▪ Spanish 161
▪ Spanish 162
▪ Spanish 163
▪ Spanish 164
▪ One elective in Hispanic Linguistics
▪ One elective in Linguistics (upper division from Linguistics or any foreign language department)
▪ One elective in any upper division Spanish, Portuguese, or Catalan topicDECLARING THE MAJORYou can receive pre-major advising at any time, from the Undergraduate Advisor (5317 Dwinelle). Declare the major when you have completed Spanish 25, which you must take for a letter grade.Single Major: To declare a single major in Spanish & Portuguese, make an appointment with the Undergraduate Advisor at spanua@berkeley.edu, or drop in to see her between 9-12 and 1-4, M-F.Double Major: To declare a double major, first download a double major packet from the College of Letters & Science website. Make appointments with both major advisors (Undergraduate Advisor at spanua@berkeley.edu, and the other advisor). You will need to prepare a four-year plan, get signatures from both departments, and then meet with an L&S College Advisor in 206 Evans Hall.We offer three minor programs within the department (please see below for details about each option). All courses must be taken for a letter grade, including all prerequisites. 3 of the 5 upper division courses must be taken in residence here at UC Berkeley. No formal declaration of enrollment in the minor program is required.Prerequisites: Completion of Spanish 1, 2, 3, 4, and 25 (or their equivalents).
The Minor: Five upper division courses in Spanish/Spanish-American language, linguistics, literature, or culture, selected from the offerings of the department.Prerequisites: Completion of Spanish 1, 2, 3, 4, and 25 (or their equivalents).
The Minor: Spanish 100 (Introduction to Spanish Linguistics) and four other upper-division Spanish linguistics classes, from among Spanish 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, and 179.Prerequisites: Completion of Portuguese 50 (formerly called Port 101A/B and Port 101).
The Minor: Any five upper division courses in Portuguese/Brazilian language, linguistics, literature, or culture, selected from the offerings of the department.If you’ve taken all five upper-division courses at UC Berkeley, during your final semester you need to:Do this even if you’re enrolled in a Spanish or Portuguese course at the time. Note: If you’ve taken one or two of the five upper-division courses outside of UC Berkeley, you must obtain written approval from the Undergraduate Advisor and provide a transcript showing the letter grade you received.FAQs Q: I’ve taken Spanish in high school or at a community college. Do I still have to start in Spanish 1?A: No, the requirement is that you take Spanish 1 – 4 or their equivalents. Please see the placement guidelines to determine your starting level. If you begin at Spanish 3, you need only take Spanish 4 and Spanish 25 before you begin the courses for the minor.Q: How many courses can I count towards the minor if I study abroad?A: For the minor, you can count two upper division courses. You must take three of the upper-division courses here at UCB.Q: Can I take any course abroad that is taught in Spanish or Portuguese to count for the minor?A: No, they must be equivalent to courses that we would teach within our department.Q: How do I get my courses approved while I am abroad?A: Final approval is only given upon your return, but tentative approval can be given via email at spanua@berkeley.edu. Q: Where will my minor show – on my diploma, on my transcript, on both?A: The minor will be posted to your transcript, not your diploma.