It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.The Program in Critical Theory’s three core-course requirements are intended to establish an historical and normative framework for understanding critical theory in its current breadth. DE students’ evaluations confirm that these courses have been overwhelmingly successful. This three core-course sequence (a) explores the concept of critique in German Idealism and in related philosophical work (Critical Theory 200), (b) provides intensive exposure to the Frankfurt School and its legacies (Critical Theory 205); and (c) robustly engages contemporary forms of critical theory and their relations to historical, sociopolitical, and cultural studies, as well as to debates on social norms (Critical Theory 240). In addition to requiring the three core courses, The Program in Critical Theory also requires DE students to take two elective courses. As with the core courses, various elective courses are offered each semester by Critical Theory faculty in Anthropology, Comparative Literature, Education, English, Ethnic Studies, Film and Media Studies, French, Gender and Women’s Studies, Geography, German, History, History of Art, Interdisciplinary Studies, Italian, Law, Music, Performance Studies, Philosophy, Political Science, Public Health, Rhetoric, Spanish and Portuguese, Sociology, and South and Southeast Asian Studies, among others. The Program in Critical Theory and its DE offer graduate fellowships, host international scholars, and present lectures, seminars, and other events for the wider campus and San Francisco Bay Area communities. The Program also maintains important collaborative relations with other critical theory institutes and programs nationally and internationally.Petitions for admission to the DE are accepted each spring for admission to the program the following fall. There are approximately 15 new students admitted each year to the DE in Critical Theory. For information on admissions and programs, please attend the annual Designated Emphasis Open House and Information Session. Questions may also be sent to critical_theory@berkeley.edu.Only students enrolled in Ph.D. programs at the University of California, Berkeley are eligible to apply for the DE in Critical Theory. Students must apply in the first or second year of graduate study in order to fulfill the requirements of the DE in addition to those of their home department.Petitions for admission to the DE are accepted each Spring for admission to the program the following Fall. The DE in Critical Theory admits approximately 15 new students each year. We currently have approximately 95 students in the program drawn from a wide number of departments across the humanities and social sciences.The due date for the 2018-19 academic year is March 6, 2018 at 4pm. Please submit applications and supporting materials via email as a single PDF to critical_theory [at] berkeley.edu or deliver hard copies to The Program in Critical Theory, 440 Stephens Hall Dwinelle Hall, MC 2340, Berkeley, CA 94720.Petition for Admission to the Designated Emphasis in Critical TheoryPlease submit this form with DE applications.Back to TopThe requirements of the DE include completion of the course curriculum and appropriate representation of DE faculty on the student’s qualifying exam and dissertation committees.DE students are required to take five courses. Three of these comprise the core curriculum (CT 200, 205, and 240), and two are electives (CT 290) selected from a list of courses offered by the DE faculty. When possible, it is preferable for students to take core courses in sequence. Courses must be taken for a letter grade and should be completed prior to the Qualifying Exam.One of the members of the student’s qualifying examination committee and dissertation committee must represent the DE in Critical Theory and be a member of the DE’s designated faculty. These faculty members may be outside or inside members of the student’s committees.Every student admitted to the program will have an advisor selected from the members of the Critical Theory faculty. This advisor is responsible for mentoring the student through the DE and works in consultation with a departmental advisor from the student’s home department to assure appropriate representation of the DE on the student’s qualifying examination and dissertation committees.Upon successful completion of the dissertation, the student’s transcript will include the designation: “Ph.D. in [major] with a Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory.” This designation certifies that she or he has participated in, and successfully completed, a Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory in addition to all departmental requirements for the doctorate.
DE in Critical Theory Requirements ChecklistPlease use this form upon completing all required coursework and paperwork for the obtainment of the Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory.Petition for DE in Critical Theory Elective Course Credit Please use this form to petition for elective course credit in the DE for any course that was not explicitly offered as a Critical Theory Elective.Back to TopThe Critical Theory Dissertation Fellowship is awarded to Critical Theory DE graduate students with records of achievement and promising dissertation projects. The fellowship supports students writing their dissertations with up to $18,000 toward fees and stipend for a single semester of support.The annual fellowship is open to Critical Theory students in UC Berkeley Departments including Anthropology, Boalt Law School, Comparative Literature, East Asian Languages and Cultures, English, Ethnic Studies, Film and Media, French, Gender and Women’s Studies, German, Geography, History, History of Art, Italian, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Rhetoric, School of Education, School of Public Health, Sociology, Spanish and Portuguese, and Theater, Dance and Performance Studies.The due date for the 2018-19 Dissertation Fellowship application is April 3, 2018.2017-18 Dissertation Fellowships were awarded to William Callison (Political Science) and Stephen McIsaac (Anthropology). Callison’s dissertation, “The Irrational Rationality of Neoliberalism: Weberian Legacies in Critical Theory and Political Economy,” examines approaches to critique and scientificity that evolved out of Marxian, Weberian and related theoretical paradigms from the inter- and postwar eras. McIsaac’s dissertation, “Impasse of Legibility: Violence, Psychiatry, and Generation in South Africa,” explores how the effects of postcolonial violence are rendered intelligible across different fields of inquiry, forms of life, and generations in contemporary South Africa. Past Fellowship awards were generously provided by the Magistretti Graduate Fellowship Fund through the UC Berkeley College of Letters and Sciences, Division of Arts and Humanities.Past recipients:2016-17 – Paul Martorelli (Political Science) and Milad Obadei (Anthropology)
2015-16 – Chiara Ricciardone (Rhetoric)
2014-15 – Joshua Williams (Performance Studies)
2013-14 – Ramsey McGlazer (Comparative Literature)
2012-13 – Mareike Winchell (Anthropology)Additional fellowship opportunities are posted as they become available.The Program in Critical Theory’s three core-course requirements are intended to establish an historical and normative framework for understanding critical theory in its current breadth. DE students’ evaluations confirm that these courses have been overwhelmingly successful. This three core-course sequence (a) explores the concept of critique in German Idealism and in related philosophical work (Critical Theory 200), (b) provides intensive exposure to the Frankfurt School and its legacies (Critical Theory 205); and (c) robustly engages contemporary forms of critical theory and their relations to historical, sociopolitical, and cultural studies, as well as to debates on social norms (Critical Theory 240). In addition to requiring the three core courses, The Program in Critical Theory also requires DE students to take two elective courses. As with the core courses, various elective courses are offered each semester by Critical Theory faculty in Anthropology, Comparative Literature, Education, English, Ethnic Studies, Film and Media Studies, French, Gender and Women’s Studies, Geography, German, History, History of Art, Interdisciplinary Studies, Italian, Law, Music, Performance Studies, Philosophy, Political Science, Public Health, Rhetoric, Spanish and Portuguese, Sociology, and South and Southeast Asian Studies, among others. The Program in Critical Theory and its DE offer graduate fellowships, host international scholars, and present lectures, seminars, and other events for the wider campus and San Francisco Bay Area communities. The Program also maintains important collaborative relations with other critical theory institutes and programs nationally and internationally.Petitions for admission to the DE are accepted each spring for admission to the program the following fall. There are approximately 15 new students admitted each year to the DE in Critical Theory. For information on admissions and programs, please attend the annual Designated Emphasis Open House and Information Session. Questions may also be sent to critical_theory@berkeley.edu.Only students enrolled in Ph.D. programs at the University of California, Berkeley are eligible to apply for the DE in Critical Theory. Students must apply in the first or second year of graduate study in order to fulfill the requirements of the DE in addition to those of their home department.Petitions for admission to the DE are accepted each Spring for admission to the program the following Fall. The DE in Critical Theory admits approximately 15 new students each year. We currently have approximately 95 students in the program drawn from a wide number of departments across the humanities and social sciences.The due date for the 2018-19 academic year is March 6, 2018 at 4pm. Please submit applications and supporting materials via email as a single PDF to critical_theory [at] berkeley.edu or deliver hard copies to The Program in Critical Theory, 440 Stephens Hall Dwinelle Hall, MC 2340, Berkeley, CA 94720.Petition for Admission to the Designated Emphasis in Critical TheoryPlease submit this form with DE applications.Back to TopThe requirements of the DE include completion of the course curriculum and appropriate representation of DE faculty on the student’s qualifying exam and dissertation committees.DE students are required to take five courses. Three of these comprise the core curriculum (CT 200, 205, and 240), and two are electives (CT 290) selected from a list of courses offered by the DE faculty. When possible, it is preferable for students to take core courses in sequence. Courses must be taken for a letter grade and should be completed prior to the Qualifying Exam.One of the members of the student’s qualifying examination committee and dissertation committee must represent the DE in Critical Theory and be a member of the DE’s designated faculty. These faculty members may be outside or inside members of the student’s committees.Every student admitted to the program will have an advisor selected from the members of the Critical Theory faculty. This advisor is responsible for mentoring the student through the DE and works in consultation with a departmental advisor from the student’s home department to assure appropriate representation of the DE on the student’s qualifying examination and dissertation committees.Upon successful completion of the dissertation, the student’s transcript will include the designation: “Ph.D. in [major] with a Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory.” This designation certifies that she or he has participated in, and successfully completed, a Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory in addition to all departmental requirements for the doctorate.
DE in Critical Theory Requirements ChecklistPlease use this form upon completing all required coursework and paperwork for the obtainment of the Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory.Petition for DE in Critical Theory Elective Course Credit Please use this form to petition for elective course credit in the DE for any course that was not explicitly offered as a Critical Theory Elective.Back to TopThe Critical Theory Dissertation Fellowship is awarded to Critical Theory DE graduate students with records of achievement and promising dissertation projects. The fellowship supports students writing their dissertations with up to $18,000 toward fees and stipend for a single semester of support.The annual fellowship is open to Critical Theory students in UC Berkeley Departments including Anthropology, Boalt Law School, Comparative Literature, East Asian Languages and Cultures, English, Ethnic Studies, Film and Media, French, Gender and Women’s Studies, German, Geography, History, History of Art, Italian, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Rhetoric, School of Education, School of Public Health, Sociology, Spanish and Portuguese, and Theater, Dance and Performance Studies.The due date for the 2018-19 Dissertation Fellowship application is April 3, 2018.2017-18 Dissertation Fellowships were awarded to William Callison (Political Science) and Stephen McIsaac (Anthropology). Callison’s dissertation, “The Irrational Rationality of Neoliberalism: Weberian Legacies in Critical Theory and Political Economy,” examines approaches to critique and scientificity that evolved out of Marxian, Weberian and related theoretical paradigms from the inter- and postwar eras. McIsaac’s dissertation, “Impasse of Legibility: Violence, Psychiatry, and Generation in South Africa,” explores how the effects of postcolonial violence are rendered intelligible across different fields of inquiry, forms of life, and generations in contemporary South Africa. Past Fellowship awards were generously provided by the Magistretti Graduate Fellowship Fund through the UC Berkeley College of Letters and Sciences, Division of Arts and Humanities.Past recipients:2016-17 – Paul Martorelli (Political Science) and Milad Obadei (Anthropology)
2015-16 – Chiara Ricciardone (Rhetoric)
2014-15 – Joshua Williams (Performance Studies)
2013-14 – Ramsey McGlazer (Comparative Literature)
2012-13 – Mareike Winchell (Anthropology)Additional fellowship opportunities are posted as they become available.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.Anthony Cascardi The aims of this seminar are several fold: to track the ways in which the goals of “critical theory” were from its earliest days associated with the project of an aesthetic critique; to assess the degree to which critical theory was (or was not) consistent with the major texts of Western aesthetics (Kant, Hegel, etc.); and finally to engage and evaluate the “return” of aesthetics since the 1970’s in light of cultural conceptual challenges to the paradigm of Western Marxism. We will devote special attention to the problem of reflective judgment, to the nature and limits of materialism, and to the ongoing negotiations between romanticism and modernism, including postmodernism. During the semester we will read some of the “founding” texts of modern Western aesthetics in detail, but the course will be construed as an investigation of the relationships between critical theory and aesthetics rather than as an introduction to or survey of the philosophy or theory of art. We will work collaboratively as much as possible. Students will be responsible for leading one class meeting in an informal way. Papers treating some question raised directly by the materials read and discussed in the course will be due as follows: paper topics submitted for review and approval by November 5; final papers due in both electronic and hard copy by December 10. Papers submitted after December 10 will be read as they are received but grades will be recorded as “I”. In addition to the following books (on order), there will be a selection of readings from works by Hume, Habermas, Marx and Engels, Walter Benjamin, Terry Eagleton, Jay Bernstein, and Fredric Jameson.Required Books: Theodor Adorno, Aesthetic Theory; Immanuel Kant, Critique of Judgment; Friedrich Schiller, Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Mankind; Friedrich Hegel, Introductory Lectures; Hannah Arendt, Lectures on Kant’s Political Philosophy; Herbert Marcuse, The Aesthetic Dimension: Toward a Critique of Marxist Aesthetics; Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer, Dialectic of Enlightenment; Guy Debord, Society of the Spectacle; Guy Debord, Comments on the Society of the Spectacle.Anne-Lise FrancoisThis research seminar addresses two areas of literary and critical theory concerned with animal/human divides and the relationship between place, language and politics. “Biopolitics” commonly refers to the politicization of those areas of life that the human shares with other animals, and to the interest the modern state takes in “making live” and in the regulation and rendering productive of life functions–through statistics on population, sexual habits, health, sanitation, etc. “Ecocriticism” usually designates the study of literature in relation to something called “nature,” and is often defined by narratives of human destructiveness, difference and lost connection. What insights can these two fields bring to bear on one another and what role does the study of literature and linguistic experience play in either? How and why has the ethical turn toward nonhuman others—evident in the emerging field of animal studies—coincided with the industrialization of food production and modern consumerism? Other topics will include: the conflict between “modernity” and “modernization” and the role of marginalized communities; agriculture as a border-space between “culture” and “nature”; fantasies about ecological disaster, social catastrophe, and science’s (or poetry’s) ability to save or destroy humankind.Readings by: David Abram, Adorno and Horkheimer, Giorgio Agamben, Hannah Arendt, Jonathan Bate, John Berger, Lawrence Buell, Judith Butler, Mike Davis, Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault, Donna Haraway, Geoffrey Hartman, Vicki Hearne, Martin Heidegger, Fredric Jameson, Franz Kafka, Naomi Klein, Bruno Latour, Timothy Morton, Michael Pollan, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Gary Snyder, Raymond Williams, Cary Wolfe.Book list: Wordsworth and Coleridge, Lyrical Ballads; Mary Shelley, Frankenstein; Henry David Thoreau, Walden; J. M. Coetzee, The Lives of Animals.Films: Ridley Scott, Blade Runner; Werner Herzog, Grizzly Man.Judith Butler
Tuesdays, 2-5 pmThis course will consider a notion of critique, immanent and dialectical, that emerges from Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit and bears significantly on 20th century conceptions of critical theory. We will begin with an introduction to Kant’s notion of critical philosophy and then turn to Hegel, focusing on Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit, especially the sections “Lordship and Bondage,” “The Unhappy Consciousness,” and “The Ethical Order.” We will turn briefly to Marx’s critique of Hegel in the second part of the course. Students should be prepared to conduct close readings of the text with some reference to the German in class. A list of secondary readings will also be provided.Texts: Kant, Critique of Pure Reason (Preface I and II, Introduction, Transcendental Doctrine, and Division One); Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit (Preface, Introduction, sections A and B; and “The Ethical Order”); Selections from Hegel, The Philosophy of Right, and The Logic (from the Encyclopedia); Marx, Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts, 1844, “On the Jewish Question”.Martin Jay
Mondays, 2-4 pmThis course will follow the fortunes of the 20th-century European critical tradition known as Western Marxism, reading original works by Lukács, Sartre, Bloch, Horkheimer, Adorno, Habermas, Althusser, Gramsci, and others. Texts: Perry Anderson, Considerations on Western Marxism; Maurice Merleau-Ponty, The Adventures of the Dialectic; Georg Lukacs, History and Class Consciousness; Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno, Dialectic of Enlightenment; Jean-Paul Sartre, Search for a Method; Louis Althusser, For Marx; Antonio Gramsci, Selections from The Prison Notebooks; Jurgen Habermas, Communication and the Evolution of Society; Ernst Bloch, The Utopian Function of Art and Literature; Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe, Hegemony and Socialist Strategy; Goran Therborn, From Marxism to Post-Marxism; Martin Jay, Marxism and Totality.Dylan Riley
Tuesdays, 12-2 pmThis course has two aims: to provide an introduction to some of the main substantive areas in historical sociology, and to identify the logic of comparative historical inquiry as a type of social science. The course is organized into three parts. Part one introduces debates about the nature of theory and evidence, the general characteristics of history, and what causal accounts of history might look like. Part two introduces strategies of concept of formation in historical sociology by drawing on Marx and Weber’s conceptualizations of capitalism and the modern state. Part three surveys key works in historical sociology. Evaluation in the course is based on four pieces of work: class participation, a presentation, a brief essay formulating a set of “rules of comparative and historical method”, and a set of five reaction papers. Readings include: John Stuart Mill, Karl R Popper, Edward Hallett Carr, William Sewell, Karl Marx, Max Weber, Perry Anderson, Robert Brenner, Immanuel Wallerstein, Michael Mann, Charles Tilly, Philip Gorski, Barrington Moore, Theda Skocpol, and Robert Paxton.Ramona NaddaffThe nineteenth-century is a long and complicated century as is its history of philosophy. This course will investigate certain of the critical philosophical interventions—primarily German—in the fields of ethics, politics, and epistemology. Our aim will be double. On the one hand, we will engage in a survey of the major thinkers of this period: Kant, Hegel, Schopenhauer, Marx, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche and Freud. On the other hand, we will concentrate specifically on the dialectical relation of these authors. We will attempt to reconstruct, through textual exegesis and commentary, the dialogues ignited by their works, especially the movements from the Kantian “Copernican Revolution” and its aspirations towards an autonomous reason to Hegel’s “absolute idealism” to the critiques and philosophical perspectives and methodologies that emerge in their aftermath. The course will begin with an examination of two important philosophical precursors—Descartes and Hume. We will also commit to a reading of the Germans by one French philosopher, Gilles Deleuze, whose monographs on Hume, Kant and Nietzsche concentrate particularly on the nexus of knowledge, sensation, subjectivity and ethics.Course enrollment will be limited to graduate students in the Rhetoric Department and in the Critical Theory Designated Emphasis.Requirements: The requirements will depend on class size. However, roughly speaking, they will include: 1) at least 3-5 short reader-response papers on a specific passage from the weekly reading; 2) one in-class oral presentation of 30 minutes; 3) one formally prepared commentary on the in-class presentation; 3) a final paper of 15 pages.Tentative Reading List: A number of books are available for purchase at the ASUC. A class Bspace will also contain additional readings. If you choose to purchase your books elsewhere, please be certain to acquire the edition and translation selected for the course. R. Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy (selections); Hume, Treatise on Human Nature (selections); I. Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, Cambridge University Press; I. Kant, Critique of Practical Reason, Cambridge University Press; G.W.F. Hegel, The Phenomenology of Spirit, Digireads.com; A. Schopenhauer, The World as Will and Representation (selections); K. Marx, Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts and The Communist Manifesto in Selected Writings, edited by David McClellan, Oxford University Press; S. Kierkegaard, Fear and Trembling, Cambridge University Press; F. Nietzsche, The Genealogy of Morals, Cambridge University Press, and “On the Use and Disadvantage of History for Life”; S. Freud, Civilization and Its Discontents, paperback, Norton; Gilles Deleuze, Empiricism and Subjectivity; Kant’s Critical Philosophy; Nietzsche and Philosophy; W. Kauffman, Hegel: Text and Commentary, Doubleday.Judith Butler
Tuesdays, 3-6 pm, 7415 Dwinelle
Note: The first class on Aug. 31 will be held in 370 Dwinelle Admission will be determined by professor through a process to be outlined at the first meeting.Several fundamental concepts for critical theory are introduced and provoked through Kafka’s writing: the problem of time and history, the human animal, objects and objectification, authority and law, language, theology and progress and their scattered remnants. In this course, we will focus on the short fiction and parables of Kafka as well as the essays, fragments, and correspondence of critical theorists such as Theodor Adorno and Walter Benjamin. We will also consider the more sporadic appearances of Kafka in the work of Hannah Arendt, Georg Lukács, Gershom Scholem, and Jacques Derrida as they each negotiate key questions of modernity, authority, and history. Kafka’s literary writings confounded historical and interpretive schemes of thinking and posed challenges for theoretical reflection on historical time, law, and writing itself. Kafka’s stories were often also letters, or diary entries, and similarly, some of Benjamin’s most important theoretical reflections on Kafka were articulated in correspondence with Adorno and Scholem. Adorno’s own writing registered the loss of historical continuity in new modes of philosophical writing. We will consider how such genres of writing cross-cut the relation between Kafka and his critical commentators, asking how this affects the relation between theoretical reflection and literary writing. Although this course will read Kafka mainly in relation to the correspondences and essays of Walter Benjamin and Theodor Adorno, and others working within the orbit of critical theory (including Derrida and Deleuze), it will also consider the genres of theory that emerge to fathom new constellations of history. For instance, how do the specific interpretive impasses enacted in Kafka’s work challenge theoretical writing to come to terms with the fragment and the ruin, and with the limits of progressive narration? Along the way we will ask, did Kafka changed critical writing, of criticism more generally, and critical theory more specifically? If so, how do we now reflect upon genres of critical theory?The seminar will work with both the original German and English translations. Texts: Kafka, Parables and Paradoxes, Schocken Books; Kafka, The Complete Stories, Schocken Books; Kafka, Letters to Milena, Schocken Books, or Letters to Friends, Family, and Editors, Schocken Books; The Correspondence of Walter Benjamin: 1910-1940, eds. Gershom Scholem and Theodor W. Adorno; Theodor Adorno & Walter Benjamin: The Complete Correspondence 1928-1940, University of Chicago Press; Walter Benjamin, Illuminations: Essays and Reflections, introduction by Hannah Arendt, Schocken Books; T. Adorno, Minima Moralia: Reflections from Damaged Life, Verso.Recommended: Kafka, The Trial (Viking Press); Kafka, The Blue Octavo Notebooks (Schocken); Clarise Lispector, The Passion According to G.H. (U Minnesota Press); Helene Cixous, Reading with Clarice Lispector: The Poetics of Blanchot, Joyce, Kafka, Kleist and Tsvetayeva (U Minnesota Press); Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guatarri, Kafka: Toward a Minor Literature (U of Minnesota Press).The course reader will include: (1) Adorno, “A Portrait of Walter Benjamin” and “Notes on Kafka” from Prisms (MIT Press); (2) sections from Gershom Scholem, The Messianic Idea in Judaism (Schocken Press) and (3) Walter Benjamin, The Story of a Friendship (Jewish Pub. Society of America); (4) Hannah Arendt, “Preface” and “What is Authority?” from Between Past and Future, (Viking Press); (5) Georg Lukacs, “Franz Kafka or Thomas Mann?” from The Meaning of Contemporary Realism (Merlyn Press); (6) Jacques Derrida, “Before the Law” in Acts of Literature (Routledge).Amy Huber
Fridays, 2-5 pm, 189 DwinelleIn this seminar we will consider how changes in the form and logics of modern warfare produce, and perhaps reflect, profound changes in aesthetic forms and a broad array of cultural discourses. We will ask what kinds of report might authorize the totalization of war, and what forms of representation and critique remain possible as war becomes more total. Is there a connection between the advent of total forms of warfare and an ideology devoted to the rapid report of facts and information from afar? Is partial or fragmentary language an answer to total war? Some writers condemned poetry after Auschwitz (Adorno) and even those who did not tended to doubt the power of verse: “a poem makes nothing happen” (Auden), “no lyric ever stopped a tank” (Heaney). But what precisely do we want language to do or say when confronting violence or its aftermath? In this seminar we return to the critical essays of Walter Benjamin for help in this regard; readings from Theodor Adorno, Hannah Arendt, W.H. Auden, Ernst Bloch, Sigmund Freud, Gyorgy Lukacs, Alfred Metraux, and W.G. Sebald, as well as contemporary theorists, will permit us to place and refine our questions about politics and aesthetics. In the second half of the course we will focus on the U.S. air war over Germany and Japan, where ‘Shock and Awe’–a particularly American form of terror– was first named and tested. In that context we will move between media and disciplines both (turning to history, theory, photography, poetry, and literature) in order to consider how visual and literal representations of violence might proceed without mimetically reproducing its calamitous effects, or minimizing its force and magnitude. Texts: Nicholson Baker, Human Smoke: The Beginnings of World War II, the End of Civilization; W.G. Sebald, On the Natural History of Destruction; Rey Chow, The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work; Samuel Weber, Targets of Opportunity: On the Militarization of Thinking; Bombing Civilians: A Twentieth-Century History, Yuki Tanaka (Editor), Marilyn B. Young (Editor); Adorno, Can One Live After Auschwitz?: A Philosophical Reader, Rolf Tiedemann (Editor), Rodney Livingstone (Translator); Walter Benjamin, Selected Writings, Volume 3: 1935-1938; Walter Benjamin, Selected Writings, Volume 4: 1938-1940. Elsa Dorlin
Mondays, 2-5 pm, 102 Latimer
Note: The first class will be held Sept 13. No class meetings will be held on Aug 30 or Sept 6 (Labor Day)The concept of self-defense belongs to the “social contract” philosophical tradition, which defines self-defense – related to the question of self-preservation – as the first natural law. Thomas Hobbes and John Locke conceptualize self-defense in different ways: Hobbes understands and illustrates the materiality of conatus as vital principle of self- preservation (and thus, self-defense), whereas for Locke, the theoretical foundation of the right of property (first of all the property of the own body) legitimates the right to carry a weapon in civil life. In this tradition, self-defense is both the real effect and the means (or at least, a means) of the modern understanding of the self. Because the issue of self- defense has been interpreted and confounded with the right to “legitimate defense” of myself (as my primary property) and my goods, we will have to understand how this conceptual confusion (legitimate-defense vs. self-defense), serves an exclusive understanding of who has the right to self defense. That is to say, who has the right to constitute oneself as a subject worthy of protection, to become a true subject? And who holds the right to judge in fine when “self defense” becomes “illegitimate violence” ? Self-defense becomes a crucial stake in the fight to social, racial and sexual violence during modern period before represents one of the main issues mobilizing or dividing social movements during the last century. How we can understand this cultural translation of the principle of self-defense, challenging the self-ownership tradition, in order to conceptualize a self-defense where the self isn’t given, a priori, but created and constituted by a saving violence, a “detox” (Frantz Fanon)? Much more than the mere issue of right-to-life preservation, a violence per se could generate what I call a kind of “bodily reflexivity”: I defend [myself], I am… When only objects of normative violence exist before a liberatory uprising, and when only the use of violence achieves subjectivity, self-defense becomes an immanent consciousness. Using the work of Frantz Fanon, we will ask why Fanon abandons the Hegelian and Sartrian dialectic of the self, to forge a new conception of the self linked to the lively experience of violence, defined as “absolute praxis”. We will work on historical trails: from slave rebellions, colonial insurrections, anti-fascist working-class movements and Black Power organizations to feminist and queer self-defense mobilizations. Our goal will be to elaborate a genealogy as well as a phenomenology of a careful violence construed as bodily, muscular, self-consciousness.Texts: Thomas Hobbes, De Homine and De Cive; John Locke, Two treatises of government – cf. Second Treatise; John Locke, An Essay concerning Human Understanding – cf. II, XXVII, “Of identity and diversity”; Frantz Fanon, Peau noire, masques blancs, Paris, Seuil, 1952 – Black Skin, White Masks, trans. Richard Philcox, Grove Press, 2008; Frantz Fanon, Les Damnés de la terre, Paris, Maspero/La Découverte, 1961 – The Wretched of the Earth, trans. Richard Philcox, Grove Press, 2005; Homi Bhabha, The Location of Culture, Routledge, 2004; Michel Foucault, “Il Faut défendre la société”, Paris, Gallimard, 1997, “Society must be defended”: Lectures at the College de France, 1975-1976, Picador, 2003; Steve Biko, I write what I like, University of Chicago Press, 2002Other Documents: Bernard Goldstein, Ultime Combat, Paris, Zones édition, 2008 – Five Years in the Warsaw Ghetto, AK Press, 2005; Stokely Carmichael, Charles V. Hamilton, Black Power, Random House,1967; Valerie Solanas, Scum Manifesto.Elisabeth Bronfen
Tuesdays, 4-6 pm and Wednesdays, 10 am-1 pm (meets Sept. 1-22 only), 226 DwinelleA compact seminar that will introduce students to the grammar of Hollywood war films from the silent era to today. The focus of the seminar will be the dialogue between critical theoretical texts on issues of representation and re- enactment of war and close readings of paradigmatic film sequences. One of the premises is that Hollywood serves as a site of negotiation for the American history of military conflict, producing narrative resolutions and aesthetic formalizations for real events of war. The films to be discussed will, therefore, be read in relation to their historical context but also as an expression of genre development. At stake in our discussion will be how American cinema reworks actual events into cultural artifacts, both in relation to the historical events they depict and as a reflection of the cultural concerns of the time they were produced. At the same time, we will focus on the murky interface between a critical interrogation of political conflict and the aesthetic spectacle mainstream entertainment affords.Wendy Brown and Saba Mahmood
Wednesdays, 4-7 pm, 15 2224 PiedmontThis seminar will examine current debates in anthropology, political theory, and religious studies to query how practices of secularism inflect democracy and humanitarianism, and how those practices also represent, carry or cover violence. Readings will include both classical texts in political theory (Locke, Mill, Marx, Bayle, Schleiermacher, Blumenberg,Weber), and contemporary debates (Sullivan, Taylor, Asad, Keane, Connolly, Mazower). The course presumes a facility with theoretical inquiry (it is not an introductory theory course) and a commitment to interdisciplinary thinking about religion and politics. Course enrollment will be determined by instructors on the first day of class. No pre-enrollment is possible.Robert Kaufman
Mondays, 2-5 pm, 210 DwinelleThe German Bertolt Brecht, the Peruvian César Vallejo, and the American Louis Zukofsky exert–within their lifetimes, and in their posthumous reception to this day–special influence on experimental-modernist and marxian (as well as broader Left) traditions of poetry, poetics, and criticism. Like many artists who come of age early in the 20th century, these poets effectively begin their careers with romantic and symbolist poetics all but second nature to them; they proceed to adopt and extend “advanced” formal and thematic experimentation as intended critique, radicalization, and modernization of romanticism and symbolism themselves, and as an intended contribution towards the development of modern poetry’s capacities dynamically to engage, from the Left, a dramatically altered social landscape. In sustained readings of these writers’ poetry and criticism (and with some attention to their work outside poetry), this seminar will invite response to many aspects of the poetic art under study, while highlighting the consideration of what seems or doesn’t seem particularly marxian–or for that matter, particularly Left–in the poetry. These poets’ formidable imaginative energies and intellectual reach; their terrific feel for how to work with and stretch inherited poetic forms and genres; their singular formal-technical innovations at the level of line, syntax, phrase, syllable, accent, and even phoneme; their virtuosic abilities with traditional and novel orchestrations of lyric musicality; and just their sheer overall poetic talent and ambition will allow us to see, among other things, how their rigorous investigations and enactments–in verse and criticism–of the compound question “what is poetry, what is aesthetic experience, what is modernism, what is marxism, what might–or should, or should not–bring them all together?” will yield intriguing, often unexpected results (and not only in terms of the relationships obtaining in modern poetry among pleasure, estrangement, judgment, form, structure, genre, aesthetic autonomy, sociohistorical content, and ethical-political commitment). In addition to their own poetry, we will read poems by some of Brecht’s, Vallejo’s, and Zukfosky’s precursors, colleagues, and heirs; and we will spend considerable time evaluating the national–and, perhaps especially, the international or supra-national–claims made by and for the three poets’ work, including claims about the bridges they wished to help construct (not least, among the literary-artistic-political cultures of Germany and the rest of Europe, Latin America, and the United States). We will in addition read–trying to work out our own interpretations while seeking as well to reconstruct the interpretations made (and then presumably put artistically into motion) by Brecht, Vallejo, and Zukofsky themselves–those marxian writings that most influenced the three poets; this will above all mean the canonical writings of Marx and Engels, but also some key works of Karl Korsch, Georg Lukács, Walter Benjamin, Vladimir Mayakovsky, José Carlos Mariátegui, John Reed, and Sidney Finkelstein. The ways that Brecht’s, Vallejo’s, and Zukofsky’s poems appear finally to grasp or transform these 19th and 20th century marxian texts may prove telling, not only vis-à-vis modern poetry and marxism, but also with regard to this particular poetry’s German-European, Peruvian-Latin American, and American character. /(Note: We will read Brecht’s and Vallejo’s poetry in English translation, though we will frequently refer to the original German or Spanish texts of the facing-page editions that have been ordered; knowledge of German and/or Spanish, while not required, will of course be helpful.)Format: Seminar discussion; student presentations; some lecturing by instructor.
Required Texts: César Vallejo, The Complete Poetry: A Bilingual Edition, Edited and Translated by Clayton Eshelman (University of California Press, January 2007); The Communist Manifesto: A Road Map to History’s Most Important Political Document, Phil Gasper, ed. (Haymarket Books, Oct 2005); Bertolt Brecht, Poems 1913-1956, Edited by John Willett (Methuen, 1987); Brecht on Art and Politics, ed. Tom Kuhn and Steve Giles (Methuen Drama, 2003) [This text is optional/recommended]; Louis Zukofsky, A [c. 1978; 1978 UC Press; Johns Hopkins U Press 1993]; Louis Zukofsky, Complete Short Poetry [paperback] (c. 1991; Johns Hopkins Univ Press Paperback editions, 1997); Louis Zukofsky, Selected Poems, ed. Charles Bernstein (Library of America, 2006); Louis Zukofsky, A Test of Poetry, foreword by Robert Creeley (Wesleyan University Press, March 2000); a course reader containing more poetry, criticism, theory, and philosophy (including additional texts by Brecht, Vallejo, and Zukofsky, as well as writings by Kant, Hegel, Marx, Benjamin, Korsch, Duncan, Oppen, Niedecker, Levertov, Paz, Zurita, and others).Dylan Riley
Tuesdays, 10 am-12 pm, 321 HavilandGramsci’s Prison Notebooks are often read as one version of the return to Hegel that swept across Marxist thought in the wake of the Bolshevik Revolution. As such he is often presented as an Italian analogue to Lukács and Korsch and a precursor of “critical theory”. But such a reading misses much of what is most original in his thought (including his embryonic analyses of the key political differences between Western and Eastern Europe). In this class we attempt to establish the distinctiveness of Gramsci’s version of Marxism by reconstructing the specific polemical contexts of his fragmentary masterwork. The class will investigate Gramsci’s reaction to Bukharin, Croce, Hegel, Gentile, Labriola, Lenin, Marx, Machiavelli, Michels, Mosca, and Sorel. It will thus attempt to place Gramsci’s thought in both a specifically Italian and broader European tradition, and interrogate the connections between these two. The class is appropriate for students interested in social theory, critical theory, and Italian studies.Suzanne Guerlac
Fridays, 2-5 pm, 4226 DwinelleThis course will introduce key concepts of foundational texts in 19th century philosophy that serve as a basis for subsequent elaborations in critical theory and in French theory. We will, as much as possible, derive these concepts from readings of selections of the primary texts that present them. We will begin with an introduction to Kant’s notion of critical philosophy (his Copernican Revolution) as this pertains to issues of epistemology, ethics and esthetics by reading extracts from each of Kant’s three major Critiques (the Critique of Pure Reason, the Critique of Practical Reason and the Critique of Judgment). We will then turn to Hegel, examining first the logical basis for his dialectical philosophy (reading the preface to his Science of Logic and extracts from it) and then key aspects of his Phenomenology of the Spirit, with special emphasis on the sections “The Unhappy Consciousness” and “Lord and Bondage” (or the scene of recognition, which introduces issues of inter-subjectivity); we will take a brief detour through Alexander Kojève’s interpretation of the Hegelian recognition scene that was influential to subsequent French philosophy. This will lead us into an examination of Marx’s critique of Hegel and an examination of key concepts from Marx’s Capital. We will end with a brief examination of George Bataille’s response to Hegel in Eroticism and two texts of Nietzsche, The Genealogy of Morals and Untimely Meditations: On the Use and Abuse of History.Readings will include selections from the following: Adorno, Hegel, Three Studies (tr. Shierry Weber, MIT Press, 1994); Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason (selections), The Critique of Practical Reason (selections), The Critique of Judgment (selections) Hegel, Science of Logic (preface and selections), The Phenomenology of Spirit (selections); Alexandre Kojève, Introduction to the Reading of Hegel: Lectures on the Phenomenology of Spirit (CUP, 1980); Marx, The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon, Early Writings, tr. Rodney Livingston and Gregor Benton (Harmondsworth: Pengui, 1992), Capital I: A Critique of Political Economy (selections); Nietzsche, The Genealogy of Morals, ed. Keith Ansell-Pearson (Cambridge UP, 2007); Untimely Meditations: On the Use and Abuse of History for Life (1873), tr. Ian C. Johnston; Bataille, Eroticism. Suggested Readings: Surya Michel, De l’argent. La ruine de la politique (Editions payot et Rivages, 2009 – if English text available). David Harvey, The Enigma of Capital.Tony Kaes
Mondays, 2-6 pm, 282 DwinelleThe seminar investigates German cinema of the late Weimar Republic and its complex relationship to the growing social and political unrest of the period. Special attention will be paid to the transition from silent cinema to sound after 1929 and the transition from a democratic to a fascist system after 1933. We will analyze selected films between 1929, the year of the stock market crash, and 1936, the year of the Berlin Olympics and Hitler’s greatest triumph. Our theoretical guide will be the political, economic, and cultural writings of the Frankfurt School during that time period. Larger questions will include the tension between aesthetics and politics, the role of the intellectual, and the very concept of crisis. Films by Bert Brecht, Fritz Lang, G.W. Pabst, Max Ophüls, and Leni Riefenstahl, among others. Texts by Theodor W. Adorno, Max Horkheimer, Walter Benjamin, Siegfried Kracauer, Wilhelm Reich, Herbert Marcuse, Leo Löwenthal, et al.Donna Jones
Tuesdays & Thursdays, 12:30-2 pm, 121 WheelerThis course will explore the literary and cultural significance of philosophies of life. To set the course in motion, we shall begin with two provocative works: Terry Eagleton’s The Meaning of Life and Elizabeth Grosz’s The Nick of Time. In exploring the meaning of life, Eagleton takes us on a tour of the many meanings of life. In readings of Darwin, Nietzsche, Bergson and Deleuze, Grosz identifies life with temporality or a way of holding the past, present and future together. The course will then be divided into four major sections, combining literary and philosophical works: Romanticism, Nietzscheanism, Bergsonism, and Bio-power. In our discussion of Romanticism we shall focus on what M. H. Abrams long ago determined to be its core concept—life. We shall explore the significance of the Romantics’ interest in the scientific attempts to understand life, monstrous life forms and life’s interconnectedness. Our study of Nietzscheanism will culminate in a reading of Mann’s Dr. Faustus whose protagonist embodies the temptations and dangers of Nietzschean Lebensphilosophie, but we shall begin with Nietzsche’s own affirmation of life against asceticism. We shall also study the interpretation of his philosophy developed by Georg Simmel whose influence on cultural studies and philosophy is still underestimated. Anticipating Martin Heidegger, and in response to The Great War, Simmel registers the cultural shift from the affirmation of life to the authentic facing of death. We shall then move to the study of Bergsonism. We shall read Bergson’s most culturally influential work, not his more strictly philosophical works. We shall investigate the fear of mechanical inelasticity and becoming automaton, his critiques of limits of mechanistic thinking about life, and his valorization of intuition and process as the epistemology and ontology suited to life, respectively. We shall then discuss how these ideas are thematized in works by D.H. Lawrence, Aimé Césaire and Leopold Senghor. But we will also attend to the visual arts to explore how vitalist themes were played out. On the one hand, Bergsonism provided a language with which to appreciate African art; on the other hand, the vitalist themes of Bergson and Georges Sorel were appropriated by the European fascist avant-garde. The course will conclude with the recent discussion of the nature of life in the theorization of biopower, biopolitics and the homo sacer.Required readings (the reading will be composed of both selections and whole texts from the following books): Introduction – Terry Eagleton, The Meaning of Life: A Very Short Introduction; Elizabeth Grosz, The Nick of Time: Politics, Evolution and the Untimely; The Romantics – Mary Shelley, Frankenstein or The Modern Prometheus; M. H. Abrams, “The World’s Song of Life and Joy”; Denise Gigante, Life: Organic Form and Romanticism; Timothy Morton, Ecology Without Nature; Nietzscheanism – Friedrich Nietzsche, On The Genealogy of Morals; Georg Simmel, The View of Life: Four Metaphysical Essays with Journal Applications; Thomas Mann, Dr. Faustus: The Life of the Composer Adrian Leverkühn as Told by a Friend; Bergsonism – Henri Bergson, Creative Evolution; Henri Bergson, Comedy; D.H. Lawrence, Women in Love; Aimé Césaire, Cahier d’un Retour Au Pays Natal (English and French edition), ed. Abiola Irele; Souleymane Bachir Diagne, African Art as Philosophy: Senghor, Bergson and the Idea of Négritude; Mark Antliff, Avant-garde Fascism: The Mobilization of Myth, Art and Culture in France, 1909-1939; Biopower and Biopolitics – Michel Foucault, Society Must Be Defended; Thomas Lemke, Biopolitics: An Advanced Introduction; Kazuo Ishiguro, Never Let Me Go.Wendy Brown
Tuesdays, 10 am-12 pm, 791 BarrowsA weekly seminar on political thought in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Modern political theorists, typically including Tocqueville, Hegel, Marx, Mill, Nietzsche, and Weber.Judith ButlerThis two-credit seminar will meet 6 times throughout the semester and each meeting will be devoted to one of the following questions: Why read Hegel now? How do we read Hegel now? Why is reading the Phenomenology different from reading other Hegelian texts? Why is Hegel so difficult? What is the relation between Hegel and contemporary critical theory? A final session will be arranged for student presentations. Students will be asked to write a 9-10 page paper. Texts: Hegel, Early Theological Writings; Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit; sections from Hegel’s The Philosophy of Right and the Logic. A course reader will be available in late August that will include various critical essays.Class Days and Location (all begin at 5 pm):
Thurs, Sept 1: 3335 Dwinelle Hall
Thurs, Sept 15: 370 Dwinelle Hall
Tues, Sept 27: 370 Dwinelle Hall
Tues, Oct 18: 370 Dwinelle Hall
Thurs, Nov 3: 370 Dwinelle Hall
Thurs, Dec 8: 370 Dwinelle HallMartin Jay
Fridays 10 am-12 pm, 2227 DwinelleNo intellectual of our time has generated as many productive controversies as the leading figure of the second generation of the Frankfurt School, Jürgen Habermas. Embodying in his own practice the principles of communicative rationality he so avidly defends on the level of theory, Habermas has responded to an extraordinary number of interlocutors, and in so doing raised the level of intellectual discourse in several different contexts. This course will combine readings of several of his own seminal texts with an examination of the rebuttals and counter-rebuttals they have engendered.Readings: Matthew Specter, Habermas: An Intellectual Biography (Cambridge, 978-0-521-73831); Martin Beck Matustik, Jürgen Habermas: A Philosophical-Political Profile (Rowman and Littlefield, 0-7425-0797-1); Jürgen Habermas, The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere (MIT; 0-262-58108-6); Jürgen Habermas, The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity (MIT: 0-262-08163-6); Jürgen Habermas, Communication and the Evolution of Society (Beacon: 0-8070-1513-x); Jürgen Habermas, Legitimation Crisis (Beacon: 0-8070-1521-0); Jürgen Habermas, Postmetaphysical Thinking (MIT 0-262-08209-8); Craig Calhoun, ed., Habermas and the Public Sphere (MIT: 0-262-53114-3); Lasse Thomassen, ed., The Derrida-Habermas Reader (Chicago, 0-226-79684-1); John Thompson and David Held, Habermas: Critical Debates (MIT: 0-262-70023-9); Richard Bernstein, ed., Habermas and Modernity (MIT 0-262-52102-4); Axel Honneth and Hans Joas, eds., Communicative Action (Polity: 0-7456-055540) Peter Dews, ed., Habermas: Autonomy and Solidarity (Verso, 0-86091 8521).Zeus Leonardo
Mondays 1-4 pm, 5509 TolmanThis course is designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society. As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical theory of education. Additionally, the nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations. This understanding will be instructive for our ability to confront the contours of inequality and the everyday effects of “privilege.”Karen Feldman
Mondays 4-7 pm, 282 DwinelleThis course will focus on the themes of Enlightenment, critique and freedom, centering on readings of Kant and Hegel. We will begin with Kant’s “What is Enlightenment?” and then turn to his aesthetic theory and his attempt to ground a moral theory. Our study of Hegel begins with his criticisms of Kant’s moral philosophy. We will then move on to Hegel’s formulations of how speculative philosophy works, and ultimately we will spend several weeks studying selected sections of the Phenomenology of Spirit. Most weeks will include short commentaries, aphorisms and criticisms from other prominent authors in the history of critical theory, most notably Marx, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Adorno and Arendt. The goal is for students to understand not only some of the basic concepts and gestures in Kant and Hegel, but also to place those within the context of 19th- and 20th-century critical theory.Samera Esmeir
Tuesdays 3-6 pm, 7415 DwinelleThis seminar examines the transformations in the concept of the international from the late eighteenth century until the contemporary moment. We examine both the meanings of the concept and its sites of operation. Referring to the word “international,” Jeremy Bentham associated it with the law of nations. He wrote: “the word international, it must be acknowledged, is a new one; though, it is hoped, sufficiently analogous and intelligible. It is calculated to express, in a more significant way, the branch of law which goes commonly under the name of the law of nations” (Limits of the Penal branch of Jurisprudence, 149). During the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the concept gained new meanings, as in the First International in 1864, moving away from associating the international with legal relationships. Our objective is to open up the concept, to examine its competing formations, and to unpack their political operations and interventions. We will also examine the relationship between the international and other concepts (the world, mankind, and so forth) signifying world communities. Our readings will include both philosophical texts that mobilized the concepts and historical/theoretical works that examine the operations of the concept in particular contexts.Wendy Brown
Tuesdays 2-5 pm, 706 BarrowsThis course will first analyze Marx’s writings on capitalism (primarily Capital and Grundrisse) and then turn to contemporary critical formulations of neoliberalism (Foucault, Peck, Clarke, Laval, Comoroff and others). We will spend a fair amount of time with Foucault’s lectures on neoliberalism (The Birth of Biopolitics) and with commentary on those lectures. We will focus on grasping what is and isn’t distinctive about neoliberalism as a theory, description and form of capitalism. We will also consider which parts of Marx’s analysis of capitalism remain useful and which do not— commodities, fetishism, surplus value, capital accumulation, theory of value, productive/unproductive labor, etc. And we will be exploring shifts from exchange to structured competition, laissez faire to governmentality, materialism to normative reason, labor to human capital, interest to entrepreneurialism, productivity to financialization, freedom to responsibilization, concentration to devolution. This course is not an introduction to Marx or neoliberalism. It presumes knowledge of both, even as we will attempt to defamiliarize and rethink both.Mary Ann Doane
Seminar: Wednesdays 1-4, 226 Dwinelle
Tuesday 6-8 pm, 226 DwinelleThis course offers an advanced introduction to the field of film and media theory. Classic, 1970s, and contemporary film theory texts will be placed in conversation with the broader cultural and philosophical theories from which they emerged and to which they contributed (e.g. phenomenology, Marxism, structural linguistics, psychoanalysis, feminism, postmodernism, etc.). We will focus on film theory’s relation to questions of modernity (Kracauer, Benjamin, Adorno, Miriam Hansen), “Screen theory” of the 1970s (Heath, Metz, MacCabe), and more recent theories of visual studies, television and digital media as well as media archaeology. Although we will read these works in roughly chronological order, we will not assume a teleology of development from more “primitive” to “advanced” and some readings on new media will be paired with those of older media. Throughout the course we will attempt to place theorists in conversation with one another about crucial questions of moving-image representation and to place ourselves in conversation with them.Martin Jay
Mondays 10 am-12 pm, 2303 DwinelleCritically appropriating the revisions made in classical Critical Theory by Jürgen Habermas, who is the leading representative of the Frankfurt School’s second generation, a cohort of scholars in Germany and America has emerged in the past thirty years to form a distinct third generation. Often engaged with contemporary French and American thought, while revisiting some of the earlier concerns of Adorno, Horkheimer and Benjamin, they have been focusing on a wide variety of issues. Among them are new developments in democratic theory, the importance of the dialectic of recognition, the implications of postmodernism, the changing role of the aesthetic, the relationship between justification and justice, and the challenges of gender, race and post-colonialism. This seminar will focus on the writings of major representatives of the third generation, including Albrecht Wellmer, Axel Honneth, Susan-Buck- Morss, Seyla Benhabib, Thomas McCarthy, Nancy Fraser and Rainer Forst.Tatjana Schoenwaelder-Kuntze
Mondays 12:40-3:30 pm, Graduate Theological Union DSPT:3Kant’s first Critique is one of the basic texts for modern and contemporary philosophy and thinking – and not only because it marks a transition in the way to pose epistemological questions known as the ‘Copernican turn’. Kant’s intention was to distinguish between the real knowledge (a priori) we could gain on the one hand and what he calls ideas of the reason, on the other hand. These ideas (God, the soul, and freedom) are seen to be products of our pure reason which can never, according to Kant, reach the status of real knowledge. He does, however, give some reasons why we produce and apparently (or seemingly) need such ideas – e.g. to create a liberal order for our social communities. In the seminar we will read parts of the text very closely and work out together the relevance for our contemporary thinking.
Seminar: Class presentations and 15-20 page research paper. Intended audience: MA/MTS, PhD/ThD [Auditors excluded].
The format of the class is a seminar with some lecture and presentation parts; attendance and participation in the discussion is therefore important. Students need to be committed to reading the text in preparation for each session.Loic Wacquant
Tuesdays 4-6 pm, 402 BarrowsThis is an advanced social theory/sociology/anthropology course that presupposes solid knowledge of the key works of classical social science. Using a mixed lecture-seminar format, we attempt a systematic study of the work of Pierre Bourdieu in its sociobiographical, intellectual, and theoretical contexts, anchored by the three pillars of his thought: the logic of practice, the workings of power, and the potency and limitations of knowledge. We will strive to elucidate the epistemological principles, methodological stances and procedures, core concepts (habitus, capital, field, doxa, symbolic violence), and substantive theories that undergird and arise out of Bourdieu’s varied empirical investigations of the alchemy of (symbolic) power in society and history. We will consider how these theories developed, cohere (or not), and their implications, and contrast them with alternative conceptions of social action, structure, and knowledge. The purpose is to move towards a sociogenetic understanding as well as generative grasp of Bourdieu’s scientific “point of view” (as opposed to scholastic erudition and sycophantic veneration) that would enable us to both reproduce, extend, and challenge the models of social analysis he proposes.Martin Jay
Fridays 10 am–12 pm, 3205 DwinelleThis course will follow the fortunes of the idea of “reason” in the work of Kant, Hegel and Marx. We will also examine several 20th-century assessments of their legacy, including work by Frankfurt School theorists.Robert Kaufman
Tuesdays 2-5 pm, 225 DwinelleReadings in modern, and above all modern lyric, poetry (much of it from the U.S., but also from Latin America, Europe, Asia, Africa, the Near East) in relation to major Frankfurt-School texts on aesthetics, criticism, and social theory that emphasize the significance of literature (as well as the other arts) and especially poetry. Focused concentration on the writings of Walter Benjamin and Theodor W. Adorno, and on their development of Kantian, Hegelian, and Marxian traditions of aesthetics and critical theory. Sustained attention to how and why poetry turns out to be so crucial to the Frankfurters’ (and, in particular, to Benjamin’s and Adorno’s) overall analyses of modernity, mechanical-technical-technological reproduction and reproducibility, and critical agency. Consideration of how Frankfurt-School concerns and legacies might engage the changed sociopolitical circumstances and artistic-aesthetic tendencies—and the changed poetry—of the last three decades; analysis in turn of how later-modernist and contemporary poets’ work may challenge Frankfurt analyses of and assumptions about poetry, aesthetic experience, and critical agency themselves. Readings of poetry throughout the course will tend to emphasize formal, stylistic, and philosophical-theoretical matters in order to highlight the question of how—and to what degree—artistic technique, in relation to aesthetic form and aesthetic experience, may offer stimulus toward and insight into historical, sociopolitical, and ethical understanding and engagement. Some treatment of Romantic and nineteenth-century poetry, and of 21st-century poetry, but the seminar will focus primarily on twentieth-century, modernist poetry (including modernist poetry written and published during the apparently postmodern period).Colleen Lye
Tuesdays 3:30–6:30 pm, 180 Barrows HallBook List: Bloch, Ernst, ed., Aesthetics and Politics; Jameson, Fredric, The Political Unconscious; Lukacs, Georg, The Historical Novel; Schwarz, Roberto, A Master on the Periphery of Capitalism; Morrison, Toni, Home; Adiga, Aravind, White Tiger; Park, Ed, Personal DaysWe will also read essays and book chapter selections from Eric Auerbach, Theodor Adorno, Raymond Williams, Roland Barthes, Edward Said, Franco Moretti, T.J. Clark, Dipesh Chakrabarty, Gayatri Spivak, Hal Foster, David Palumbo-Liu, Bruce Robbins, Alex Woloch, Madhu Dubey, Ulka Anjaria, Sanjay Krishnan, Stephen Best, Yoon Sun Lee, Marcial Gonzalez, and others.To what extent has our tendency to measure aesthetic achievement within the terms set by the historical modernisms of 1890-1920 blocked our perception of twentieth century peripheral literatures? This course will entertain historical diagnoses of this tendency and an accounting of some of its costs. As a result of the institutionalization of postcolonial and ethnic studies in the 1980s under a regime of reading for modernism, the magical realism of Salman Rushdie and Gabriel García-Márquez has been celebrated for its subversive antimimeticism; likewise, ethnic studies have tended to value minority literatures by vesting in a melancholic critique of History’s myths, as exemplified by dominant approaches to Toni Morrison and Maxine Hong Kingston. More recently, however, a realist turn in both literature and criticism suggests that we may now be inhabiting a different moment, one that approaches the capitalist world system as partially, potentially describable in its concrete reality rather than one that stylizes, or even heroicizes, the impossibility of mapping it.We will look at some recent literary trends exemplified by: Morrison’s departure from her signature style; the forgetting of Salman Rushdie in the era of Aravind Adiga’s adaptation of Native Son to contemporary India; and Ed Park’s experimentation with an Asian American novel without Asian American characters. The class will then move to familiarize students with foundational theoretical works in a Marxist tradition of critical realism, including: the aesthetics and politics debates within the Frankfurt School; the British cultural studies tradition represented by Raymond Williams; and the submerged presence of critical realism even within French (semiotic) theory. What are the portable legacies of European Marxism for postcolonial and ethnic projects, given that both attempt to grapple with the literary representation of non-bourgeois European subjects (whether mass proletarian, subaltern, racialized or minoritized)? The last third of the course will examine literary criticism and theory relating to race, historical transition in the postcolony, and combined and uneven development in the world system. For their final papers, students will be asked to select a novel of their choice to research and analyze, using the tools gained from the course. This course should be useful for students wishing to gain a background in Marxist criticism and world-systems theory; in postcolonial and ethnic studies; and in novel theory as it bears upon the political questions central to the former.Note: Those interested in attending this class should email the instructor a week in advance of the start of the semester for the reading assignment required of the first meeting.Mary Ann Doane
Wednesdays 2-5 pm, 226 DwinelleReadings of major texts by Freud and Lacan will stress the relations between language, subjectivity and sexuality and the feminist use and/or critique of psychoanalytic concepts. We will also look at texts by other theorists (e.g. Melanie Klein, Heinz Kohut) and investigate the clinical implications of various approaches.  Familiarity with semiotic and poststructuralist theory required.Keith P. Feldman
Thursdays 2-5 pm, 129 Barrows HallThis graduate seminar will focus on the work of Edward W. Said (1935-2003). To think alongside Said is to invite a contrapuntal engagement with some of the most influential arguments animating the interdisciplinary humanities at present. Said’s heterodox oeuvre will invite us to ask, among many things, how we might historicize and intervene in the dynamics of power/knowledge and the state and scholarly institutions that are animated by them; to read closely the presences and absences sedimented in imperial culture’s fields of representation; to contend with humanism’s shifting grounds in the face of modernity’s constitutive violence, expressed via Critical Theory on the one hand and the decolonizing world’s critique of Eurocentrism on the other. Reading Said at present will invite us to think about the practice of theorizing and how theory travels, about an ethics of exile in the face of catastrophe; about where, when, how, and for whom we do the work we do.Selections from Said’s own publications will serve as the core of our readings, from Beginnings: Intention and Method (1975) to the posthumous On Late Style: Music and Literature against the Grain (2007).Alongside these will be an array of selections drawn from a variety of interlocutors, including: Anouar Abdel-Malek, Theodor Adorno, Aijaz Ahmad, Emily Apter, Erich Auerbach, Judith Butler, James Clifford, Frantz Fanon, Michel Foucault, Sigmund Freud, Antonio Gramsci, Moustafa Marrouchi, Aamir Mufti, Benita Parry, R. Radhakrishnan, Jacqueline Rose, Ella Shohat, Giambattista Vico, and Raymond Williams.Zeus Leonardo
Monday 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThis course is designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society. As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical theory of education. Additionally, the nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations. This understanding will be instructive for our ability to confront the contours of inequality and the everyday effects of “privilege.”Zeus Leonardo
Tuesdays 1-4 pm, 5509 TolmanThis course explores the development of curriculum theory and the role of the curriculum specialist in the United States since the Progressive Period. Emphasizing a survey of classic texts and key figures, the course covers the development of three schools of thought: social efficiency approaches, child-centered approaches, and social reconstructionist approaches. It concludes with a study of curriculum theory since the Reconceptualists.Stefania Pandolfo
Mondays 10am-1pm, 221 KroeberWe know well – in the midst of American wars and in the aftermath of massive uprisings in the Middle East and the violent repression and struggles that ensued, that we inhabit a world of wars, occupations, revolutions, destruction, insurgency, and survival that affect collective existence as well as the most intimate dimensions of personal life. Traumatic experience is at once ever present as a contemporary dimension of life and death, and it is normalized as a strategy of global power and an instrumental economy of claims. On the one hand the individualized, biographical and visual representation of violent and traumatic events have become central pieces in the construction of juridical evidence and of cultural and political reality. On the other hand the coming of death to the fore in our historical time, in the lives of subjects and collectivities, shatters a linear reckoning of history, and forces us to think otherwise – taking seriously Freud’s insight in Beyond the Pleasure Principle that trauma points to a confrontation with the limits and the outside of life and human history. It requires us to reflect, once again, and as S. Freud and W. Benjamin had done half a century ago, on the enigmatic nature of traumatic loss for subjects and collectivities, beyond the logic of clinical and juridical operations, and on related concepts of history and crisis, as Koselleck’s reflections on time and modernity suggest for us.Drawing on readings from critical and psychoanalytic theories of memory, history, and trauma, but also attempting to think trauma, history, and crisis from anthropological and historical accounts emerging from traditions other than the critical Euro-American this seminar attempts to find a ground for the re-thinking of the relationship of catastrophic loss, subjectivity, and historical transmission. What are the possibilities, limits, and what the implications, configurations and histories of power in such translation of concepts? This is a classical question in contemporary anthropology (-as-critique) and postcolonial studies. We will however address it here in a different sense here, towards a regeneration of concepts. Readings will include a collection of articles and chapters on b-space, and the following books (also available on reserve in the Anthropology Library, and partially as pdfs): Reinhardt Koselleck, Future Pasts: On the Semantics of Historical Time; Ibn Khaldun The Muqaddimah: An Introduction to History: Ruth Leys, Trauma: A Genealogy: Michael Taussig, Shamanism, Colonialism, and the Wild Man; Hannah Arendt, Crises of the Republic: Lying in Politics, Civil Disobedience, On Violence, Thought on Politics and Revolution, Sigmund Freud, Beyond the Pleasure Principle; and Eric Santner, The Royal Remains: The People’s Two Bodies and the Endgames of Sovereignty.Prof. Dylan Riley
Thursday 10am-12pm, 402 Barrows This course is a review of the Marxist tradition of political thought. It focuses on the strategic debates within and outside of Marxism among such major figures as: Bakunin, Kautsky, Lenin, Luxemburg, Marx and Trotsky. The class then discusses the implications of these debates for contemporary state theory focusing on Perry Anderson, Michael Mann, Göran Therborn, and Erik Olin Wright. Students are expected to have a basic grasp of classical social theory as a prerequisite for attending the seminar.  Judith Butler
Thursday 2-5 pm, 425 DoeCT 200 will consider how different versions of critique are developed within some major figures in Critical Theory. We will consider how Kant formulates the notion of critique in some of his essays and in sections of the Critique of Pure Reason, especially as it seeks to delimit the phenomenal world in which certain kinds of knowledge are restricted. We will then ask in what forms critique reemerges within Hegel’s writings, focusing on the opening chapters of The Phenomenology of Spirit and some of his early essays on sensuous understanding and property. The course will end with a consideration of the early Marx, focusing on his own critique of German Idealism, abstraction, and the importance of sensuous and embodied action and thought. One task of the course will be to understand the grounds and objects of critique in these thinkers, underscoring points of convergence and divergence.*By Instructor-permission only. Contact critical_theory@berkeley.edu with questions.Martin Jay
Friday 10 am-12 pm, 3205 DwinelleThis seminar will be devoted to exploring various exemplars of the small forms, literary as much as philosophical, employed by Critical Theorists in their attempt to make sense of the modern world: aphorisms, Denkbilder, dialectical images, miniatures, etc. We will read works by Walter Benjamin (One-Way Street), Ernst Bloch (Traces), Horkheimer (Dawn and Decline) and Adorno (Minima Moralia), as well as such secondary texts as Gerhard Richter, Thought-Images. We will consider comparable examples in the work of Lichtenberg, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Kraus and Kracauer.*Priority registration for History graduate students and Critical Theory DEs.Keith Feldman
Tuesday 2-5 pm, Gianinni 332In the seemingly quiet winter of 1976, a quiet marked by a global economic downturn that would transform the terrain of global capitalism, a retooling of U.S. militarism from the “quagmire” of war in Southeast Asia to the “law and order” policing of domestic space, and the emergent linking between the crises of resources and terrorism, French philosopher Michel Foucault took up the vital questions of the day with typical broad strokes: “If we look beneath peace, order, wealth, and authority, beneath the calm order of subordinations, beneath the State and State apparatuses, beneath the laws, and so on, will we hear and discover a sort of primitive and permanent war?” While this was a critical turning point in the trajectory of his thinking, Foucault was approaching a question that had long been articulated in various other domains. Indeed, racialized, marginalized, and colonized communities had been posing precisely such a question in various iterations across the broad sweep of modernity. This course opens up precisely such a genealogy.This course investigates cultural interventions into processes of comparative racialization that have both utilized and contested the analytical concept of war in its many social iterations. In doing so, the course will advance comparative approaches to what appear in the contemporary moment as new forms of racialization. Students will engage social, cultural, and political theory alongside critical culture work, treating both as methods for analysis and objects of analysis. Readings will be drawn from a range of authors, including: Theodor Adorno, Hishaam Aidi, Gloria Anzaldua, Hannah Arendt, Michael Banton, Moustafa Bayoumi, Walter Benjamin, Ned Blackhawk, Mike Davis, Zillah Eisenstein, Frantz Fanon, Michel Foucault, Paul Gilroy, David Theo Goldberg, Antonio Gramsci, Stuart Hall, Suheir Hammad, Grace Hong, George Lipsitz, Mahmood Mamdani, Achille Mbembe, Cherrie Moraga, Vijay Prashad, Laura Pudilo, Adrienne Rich, Steven Salaita, David Scott, Shu-Mei Shih, Susan Sontag, Loïc Wacquant, and Robert Warrior.Julia Bryan-Wilson
Monday 2-5 pm, 425 DoeThis course proposes that recent art objects and artistic actions have helped catalyze and shape advanced feminist and queer thought, and asks how recent practices in the visual arts have been understood within theories about desire, activism, affect, loss, and world-making. What happens when we understand art as an active producer of theory, rather than as an object to which theory might be “applied?” We will focus our efforts around a series of case studies to think about how feminist and queer knowledge is embodied and performed within works, acts, and objects themselves. Artists/artist’s groups might include Hélio Oiticica, Yvonne Rainer, Gran Fury, Félix González-Torres, Asco, Kara Walker, Yasumasa Morimura, Zanele Muholi, and others.Samera Esmeir
Thursday 11 am-2 pm, 7415 DwinelleNumerous traditions articulate visions of the world and its communities, reflections on the world’s natural, human and divine layers, the bind that connects these layers and communities, as well as ways of governing the world. This seminar explores visions of the world from multiple historical traditions as they have been articulated in travel accounts, theological inquiries, political philosophical investigations, legal expositions, and oceanic studies. The contemporary vision of the world as an “international” site of state actors is juxtaposed to other visions. While most of our readings will consist in theoretical texts, the guiding questions are primarily political and ethical. We are concerned with how particular visions shape “local” and “worldly” political struggle, possibilities for living together with or without conflict, the forces (natural, human, divine) that bring communities and geographies together or separate them, and ultimately, what it means to “share a world.”Zeus Leonardo
Monday 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanA seminar course designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society. As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical social theory of education. Some of the thinkers we engage include Marx, Volosinov, Fanon, and Gramsci. The nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations. We gain an appreciation of the pervasiveness of politics in the educational process. We learn the different frameworks for thinking about social and cultural relations of power, from material power, knowledge power, to discursive power. We differentiate between schooling as a formal state institution and education, which is more dispersed and informal.Wendy Brown
Tuesday 10 am-12 pm, 706 BarrowsThis is a survey of 19th and early 20th Century political theory. Thinkers studied are Tocqueville, Marx, Bentham, Mill, Nietzsche, Weber and Freud.Anne-Lise Francois
Monday 3-6 pm, 258 DwinelleThis comparative seminar in lyric poetry borrows its title from Susan Stewart’s Poetry and the Fate of the Senses (University of Chicago Press, 2002), to ask about the relation between poetry and sensory deprivation (or plenitude) and prosthesis. We will focus on early modern to twentieth-century poetry written in English, French, German, Italian and Japanese, in the age of print culture or what will later become, in Walter Benjamin’s terms, the “age of mechanical reproducibility.” From the emergence of “haiku” out of haikai no renga (comic linked verse) to modernism’s fascination with isolated images, the course will give some attention to the “lyricization” of poetry—the privileging of isolated, individual, brief forms abstracted from once collective practices—as well as to the changing roles—messianic, consolatory, critical, representative—assigned the figure of the “solitary” poet and “autonomous” work of art in the context of industrial capitalism, the rationalization of time and space, and European colonialism. We will also ask about “the fate of the senses” in relation to contemporary ecological crisis and, in particular, to the paradox of simultaneous sensory impoverishment and perpetual stimulation.Most crucially, however, we will want to ask what happens when we read poetry as a series of substitutions (touch for sight, and sound for touch) and read together poets who, pushing the limits of language as an expressive medium, interrogate the relations of the verbal to the visual and musical arts, of visionary experience to sensory perception, of memory to imagination, and of language to the natural world and/or phenomenal experience. Tracing the meeting of stone and flesh, of the carnal and the transcendent, the transient and eternal, we will compare recurring figures of poetry as the only remaining sign of otherwise irrecoverable, lost, fugitive experiences.Poems by Petrarch, Shakespeare, Herbert, Milton, Bashō, Buson, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Keats, Baudelaire, Mallarmé, Dickinson, Hardy, Rilke, Valéry, Stevens, Niedecker, Rankine; primary readings will also be determined by special interests of students. Secondary readings by Adorno, Benjamin, Culler, Jackson, Barbara Johnson, Lessing, Krieger, Prins, Stewart, among others.Prof. Pheng Cheah
Tuesday 2-5pm, 7415 DwinelleFields of study in the social sciences and the humanities that have attracted recent widespread interest such as cosmopolitanism, world literature and human rights presuppose as their fundamental concept the idea of world. However, the term is often taken for granted in contemporary discourse and its meaning is generally unclear. More often then not, world is defined in opposition to nation and is taken to be a synonym for globe. Careful reflection on its philosophical meaning is almost never undertaken. As Heidegger observed, “elucidation of the world-concept [des Welt-begriffs] is one of the most central tasks of philosophy. The concept of world, or the phenomenon thus designated, is what has hitherto not yet been recognized in philosophy”. In this seminar, we will examine different philosophical understandings of the world from late eighteenth/early nineteenth century European philosophy to contemporary Continental thought. The three parts of the seminar focus respectively on spiritualist and idealist conceptualizations of the world (Kant and Hegel), the materialist account of the world (Marx, world-systems theory and critical geography), and phenomenological and post-phenomenological theories of the world (Heidegger, Arendt and Derrida). The broad aim of the course is to examine the ethico-political implications of a fuller understanding of the world and how it may lead to the envisioning of alternatives to the world made by contemporary global capitalism. Themes and issues to be discussed include the following: the limits of understanding the world as a spatial category; the normative dimension of world and its connection to temporality in the idea of world history; the relation between the world and humanity; phenomenological critiques of the “vulgar” conception of the world and understanding the world in terms of intersubjective intercourse; the role of action, storytelling and narrative in the opening and making of worlds; and the unworlding of the world in modernity and capitalist globalization. Time permitting, we will also consider accounts of the world from non-European philosophical traditions such as the Chinese idea of tianxia (all under heaven).Note: Critical Theory students should enroll in Rhetoric 240 G.Catherine Flynn
Monday and Wednesday, 12:00 – 1:30, 305 WheelerIn this seminar we will read ten modernist novels. We will consider the strangeness of their modes of narrative and characterization as they respond to challenges such as the destabilizing of traditional social hierarchies and gender roles, the forces of empire and global capitalism, and the demands of the city as a site of consumer capitalism. As part of foregrounding the innovative nature of these texts, we will ask how each of them constructs—or refuses to construct—the boundaries of a person. What textual features establish or undo these boundaries? What makes these characters and, or, unmakes them? What forms of subjectivity result?Novels by Beckett, Conrad, Ford, Forster, James, Joyce, Lewis, Rhys, Stein, and Woolf. Secondary readings by Adorno, Jameson, Lucretius, Nietzsche, Moretti, Winfried Menninghaus, Serres, and Stanford Friedman.Note: There is no Critical Theory course number for this class, so please register through the English department. Professor Martin Jay
Wednesday, 12 pm-2 pm, 3205 DwinelleThis course will follow the fortunes of the idea of “reason” in the work of Kant, Hegel and Marx. We will also examine several 20th-century assessments of their legacy, including work by Frankfurt School theorists.Professor Karen Feldman
Wednesday, 1-4 pm, 282 DwinelleThis course will examine 1930s Frankfurt-School thought. Topics will include the exchanges between Adorno and Benjamin on the autonomy of art and the philosophy of history.Professor Keith Feldman
Wednesday, 2-5 pm, 204 WheelerIn the seemingly quiet winter of 1976, a quiet marked by a global economic downturn that would transform the terrain of global capitalism, a retooling of U.S. militarism from the “quagmire” of war in Southeast Asia to the “law and order” policing of domestic space, and the emergent linking between the crises of resources and terrorism, French philosopher Michel Foucault took up the vital questions of the day with typical broad strokes: “If we look beneath peace, order, wealth, and authority, beneath the calm order of subordinations, beneath the State and State apparatuses, beneath the laws, and so on, will we hear and discover a sort of primitive and permanent war?” While this was a critical turning point in the trajectory of his thinking, Foucault was approaching a question that had long been articulated in various other domains. Indeed, racialized, marginalized, and colonized communities had been posing precisely such a question in various iterations across the broad sweep of modernity. “Race, War, Culture” opens up precisely such a genealogy.This course investigates cultural interventions into processes of comparative racialization that have both utilized and contested the analytical concept of war in its many social iterations. In doing so, the course will advance comparative critical and historical approaches to what appear in the contemporary moment as new forms of racialization. Students will engage social, cultural, and political theory as offering methods for analysis and objects of analysis.The course’s infrastructure is arrayed around three overlapping lines of critical inquiry:– Frantz Fanon’s entanglement of anti-blackness, colonialism, and decolonization– Michel Foucault’s investigations of sovereignty and biopower– Stuart Hall’s Gramscian theorizations of raceProfessor Zeus Leonardo
Tuesday, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanCritical Pedagogy arrived on the educational scene in 1970 with the publication of Paulo Freire’s Pedagogy of the Oppressed. There were precursors to Freire, such as George Counts, Harold Rugg, and John Dewey, but Freire’s work marks the beginning of a critical theory-informed education program. In short, we might consider that Freire’s work is when education theory first becomes “critical.” It was made possible by intellectual currents from Sartre’s existentialism, Fanon and Memmi’s anti-colonialism, Fromm’s psychoanalysis, and Lukacs’ Hegelian Marxism, to name a few. As a phrase, “critical pedagogy” became popularized in the 1980s primarily through Giroux’s writings.   This new innovation responded to international developments involving the role that education plays in the institutionalization of power relations but also as a way to ameliorate their effects. Several decades have since passed and Critical Pedagogy develops from its foundations in Freirean pedagogy rooted in Brazil to include Giroux’s cultural studies, McLaren’s global anti-capitalism, Apple’s neo-Gramscian sociology, Lather’s feminist poststructuralism, Leonardo’s critical social theory of race, bell hooks’ practice of freedom, Villenas’ decolonial Chicana feminism, and Biesta’s postmodern theory of the political subject. This course is a survey of the different iterations of Critical Pedagogy to pose the possibilities of what Giroux calls an education made political and the political made educational.Professor Marianne Constable
Thursday, 2-5 pm, 7415 DwinelleBeginning with a reading of the “History of an Error” (or of reason or of metaphysics) in Nietzsche’s Twilight of the Idols as a history of jurisprudence, the seminar will examine how legal scholars have engaged with Nietzsche’s corpus and Heidegger’s critique of it.  Every attempt will be made to bring students needing background in law or in Continental philosophy to a point of productive engagement across both fields!Required and recommended readings will be selected from Nietzsche’s major works, Heidegger’s volumes on Nietzsche, and 21st-century books and articles by critical legal scholars. Active participation and paper required.Professor Ivonne del Valle
Wednesday, 3-6 pm, 211 DwinelleRecent work of environmental historians has demonstrated how Spanish America underwent drastic changes during the colonial period. From the desertification of 20% of what is now Mexico to the traces of pollution found in the ice caps of the Andes due to mining, it would appear that, since the 16th century, the relationship between technology and economic activity had a detrimental impact on the “New World” natural environment which is only now beginning to be studied. By the same token, it could be argued that entire populations underwent equally drastic changes, some of them related to technological and economic enterprises (such as mining), others related to more subtle interventions (religious conversion, the learning of Spanish and alphabetic writing, etc.). If, as in the latter case, new methods (evangelization, training in alphabetic writing, etc.) were devised as means to particular ends (conversion, transformation), we could consider that the whole colonial enterprise became a moment in which technology was potentialized, radicalized.In this course, we will undertake two tasks:1. A theoretical exploration of what technology is: how it was conceived of at different times, by different cultures and different thinkers (Aristotle, Lucretius, Heidegger, Serres, Nancy, among others), and its “explosion” as a field of interest after World War II, and above all, recently.2. A reading of pre-Hispanic and colonial sources (mainly from Peru and Mexico; in Spanish) on what colonial technology was and the impact it had on natural environments, urban centers, and the populations that inhabited them.Professor Mary Ann Doane
Seminar, Wed 10 am-1 pm, 226 Dwinelle
Lab, Tues 7-9 pm, 226 DwinelleThe concept of a “medium“ (painting, poetry, photography, film, etc.) and medium specificity have been central concepts in aesthetic theory and have a long history.   But that concept seems to have become increasingly fragile with the advent of digital media, not only due to the notion of convergence (the idea that all media will be subsumed by the digital—photography, television, film, literature, etc.) but also by the seemingly accelerating dematerialization of the media. From painting to photography, we already witness a move from the concept of a materially grounded original to infinite reproducibility and the loss of the location or verifiability of the original. However, one can still touch a photograph as one views it. With the advent of projection in film, there is an apparent increase in dematerialization and the digital sometimes strikes us as doing away with materiality altogether (this is the “fantasy of immateriality” associated with the digital—a repression of the hardware).We sometimes forget that the concept of a medium is not that old. The emergence of an interest in differentiating media by their special and unique properties is usually traced to Lessing’s Laocoon, written in 1766. This text is a benchmark in discussion of aesthetics and medium specificity and leads to an increasing philosophical/critical interest in the boundaries of the arts and their separate teleologies. Art History is perhaps the discipline that has historically had the greatest stake in the concept of a medium. (the labeling of paintings, art works in museums—identified through medium, artist, date). The notoriety of Clement Greenberg is linked to his insistence on the association of value in aesthetics with fidelity to the medium of the work of art, to its materiality and the limitations of that materiality. The medium is often associated with classic concepts in aesthetics including form, value, beauty, limits. In the first part of the course, we will examine some of these classic texts and the debates surrounding these issues. As many have noted, the concept of a medium cannot be reduced to materiality, but neither can it be divorced from some notion of materiality and the restraint/constraint/limits of the real.Photography seems to throw a monkey wrench into the midst of these debates and definitively change their terms. By undermining the concept and importance of the notion of the material object in its uniqueness and originality, by the ambivalence surrounding its acceptance or rejection as an “art,” by the question of its place in the museum. Hence, much of the theoretical work on the concept of a medium takes place in the context of a discussion of photography. After photography, with the advent of multi-media, intermedia, etc., the concept of a medium undergoes further problematization. One of the questions we will be asking is whether or not the concept of the medium continues to have relevance and usefulness, or whether we indeed inhabit, as many have claimed, “a postmedium age.”   There will be readings in Lessing, Greenberg, Panofsky, Fried, Cavell, Bolter and Grusin (Remediation), Didi-Huberman, Rosalind Krauss, McLuhan, Jameson, Galloway and others. Screenings of films by Godard, Bresson, McCall, Resnais, Jarman, etc. Installations by David Claerbout, Broodthaers, Joe Campbell, Acconci.Professor Samera Esmeir
Thursday, 11 am-2 pm, 7415 DwinelleWhat is the relationship between treason, rebellion and revolution? Some suggest that a revolution is an event that succeeds to overthrow the political order whereas a rebellion is an outburst that does not culminate in changing the prevailing order. Related are a number of approaches that emphasize the illegitimacy of rebellion and treason as compared to revolutions that aim to regenerate political communities. In this seminar, we will explore other ways of articulating the relationship between treason, rebellion and revolution beyond questions of success and failure, or in other words, beyond the politics of ends. We will pursue two distinct itineraries of revolution and rebellion, and trace their blending in the anti-colonial struggles of the twentieth century. With the first itinerary, we will explore the consolidation of the term in writings about the motion of heavenly spheres (Nicolaus Copernicus’s On the Revolutions of Heavenly Spheres [1542]) and the acquiring of the term, half a century later, of modern political resonance indicating the overthrowing of a political regime. In this context, we will read John Locke’s “Right to Revolution” and continue to examine the reconfiguration of the term and its life in the course of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. The second itinerary explores the history of rebellion in relation to treason, as the two terms were closely related. The focus in this itinerary will be on the figure of the rebel and the treasonous/rebellious act/practice, starting with Renaissance England and culminating in contemporary treason. Finally, we will consider the intersection of these two itineraries in decolonization struggles, while assessing recent interventions concerning the collapse of revolutionary futures.In addition to the books below, we will read selections from C.L.R James and Albert Camus, John Locke as well as articles on rebellion and treason in English law.Nicolaus Copernicus, On the Revolutions of Heavenly Spheres
George Huntston William, The Radical Reformation
Christopher Hill, The World Turned Upside Down: Radical Ideas During the English Revolution
Karl Marx, The Communist Manifesto
Lenin, Revolution at the Gates
Carl Schmitt, A Theory of the Partisan
Hannah Arendt, On Revolution
Koselleck, Critique and Crisis
Michel Foucault, Society Must be Defended
Rebecca Lemon, Treason by Words: Literature, Law and Rebellion in Shakespeare’s England
Giorgio Agamben, Civil War as a Political Paradigm
James Scott, The Art of Not Being Governed: An Anarchist History of Upland Southeast Asia
David Scott, Omens of Adversity: Tragedy, Time, Memory, JusticeProfessor Tony Kaes
Monday, 1-6 pm, 282 DwinelleThis seminar will focus on the emergence of a new visual language in film and photography in the 1920s.  We will analyze works and manifestoes of avant-garde movements (Dada, Bauhaus, New Objectivity, Surrealism) and explore the entanglement of modernist aesthetics with political thought and praxis. Writings by Georg Simmel, Walter Benjamin, Theodor W. Adorno, Siegfried Kracauer, Roland Barthes and Jacques Rancière will help us discuss theories and concepts of the historical avant-garde that still resonate in contemporary art.  All texts will be in English. Professor Anton Kaes
Monday, 1-6 pm, 226 Dwinelle HallThe seminar will focus on the theoretical writings on film, photography, radio, and television by Walter Benjamin, Siegfried Kracauer, and Theodor W. Adorno from the 1920s to the 1960s. We shall engage in close readings of both classic and unknown texts by these authors and place them in dialogue with pertinent examples from film and media history. We will also relate their arguments to contemporaneous writings by theorists such as Georg Simmel, Aby Warburg, Bert Brecht, and Martin Heidegger. In addition, we will examine how the legacy of Frankfurt School’s media theory lives on in the films of Guy Debord, Jean-Luc Godard, Alexander Kluge, and Harun Farocki, as well as in current critical work on New Media. In general, the seminar will explore the various ways in which past media theories and practices illuminate our present moment and vice versa. All texts are in English translation.Professor Samera Esmeir
Tuesday, 4-7 pm, 7415 Dwinelle HallWhat are the world’s constitutive forces and dimensions, how have its signifiers shifted, and what are the political and ethical consequences of these shifts? Several contemporary disciplines that attach the concept “world” to their objects of inquiry (e.g. world history, world literature, world politics, world agriculture, world cinema) take the world to consist of territorial units (such as the state), the relationships between them, and the movements across them in time. The world, in these accounts, is an expanding stage to be progressively captured by history, law, politics as well as other disciplines that are preoccupied with comparison, translation, and movement. Alternatively, the critical versions of these disciplines emphasize the politics of translatability, including untranslatability. These critical versions refuse the unification of the world and the homogenization of its markers. Nevertheless, they share in the assumption that the world is a material stage for human and nonhuman forms of life, production and movement. In this seminar, we trace the historical rise of the world as a territorial stage in legal and political thought, and explore its material unification by the bonds of the sea, thereby enabling the world’s expansion and its (colonial) capturing (as in the oceanic journeys of the fifteenth century). We juxtapose this rise to narratives about the sea that endow it with other horizons and disruptive potentialities. In addition, we trace articulations of the world that did not limit it to nation states, as in the nineteenth century signifier “the international,” which also brought about a more radical split between the local and the international. We probe the possibility of a world not constituted by the split between domestic and international law. Special attention will be also given to the temporal and other non-material dimensions of the world, as articulated in pre-modern, including Islamic, theological accounts, and their potential persistence in contemporary concepts, even as time, too, has transformed and become homogenous. Our readings will include texts from the natural law tradition, political and legal thought, Islamic theological texts, continental philosophy, and histories of the early modern state, territory, sea and time.Professor Zeus Leonardo
Monday, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanCritical Pedagogy arrived on the educational scene in 1970 with the publication of Paulo Freire’s Pedagogy of the Oppressed. There were precursors to Freire, such as George Counts, Harold Rugg, and John Dewey, but Freire’s work marks the beginning of a critical theory-informed education program. In short, we might consider that Freire’s work is when education theory first becomes “critical.” It was made possible by intellectual currents from Sartre’s existentialism, Fanon and Memmi’s anti-colonialism, Fromm’s psychoanalysis, and Lukacs’ Hegelian Marxism, to name a few. As a phrase, “critical pedagogy” became popularized in the 1980s primarily through Giroux’s writings. This new innovation responded to international developments involving the role that education plays in the institutionalization of power relations but also as a way to ameliorate their effects. Several decades have since passed and Critical Pedagogy develops from its foundations in Freirean pedagogy rooted in Brazil to include Giroux’s cultural studies, McLaren’s global anti-capitalism, Apple’s neo-Gramscian sociology, Lather’s feminist poststructuralism, Leonardo’s critical social theory of race, bell hooks’ practice of freedom, Villenas’ decolonial Chicana feminism, and Biesta’s postmodern theory of the political subject. This course is a survey of the different iterations of Critical Pedagogy to pose the possibilities of what Giroux calls an education made political and the political made educational.Professor Zeus Leonardo
Tuesday, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanCirca 1990, Peggy McIntosh’s “Unpacking the White Knapsack”, David Roediger’s Wages of Whiteness, and Ruth Frankenberg’s White Women, Race Matters arguably represent the beginnings of a focus on whiteness and white experiences. Since then, there has been a veritable explosion of critical work on whiteness across the disciplines. This course is designed to introduce graduate students to the area of Whiteness Studies, particularly how it has been taken up by education scholars. As a relatively recent innovation (quarter of a century old), Whiteness Studies has become a burgeoning literature across many disciplines and shifted race discourse from focusing on people of color to focusing on white racial experience. The course asks students to assess what this innovation within general race theory (as well as secondarily within other theories, such as class and gender analysis) produces in terms of greater knowledge and understanding of a general racial predicament. For example, what is particular about Whiteness Studies as a field, which classical race scholarship could not have explained adequately? In addition, the course asks what the conceptual and practical applications of Whiteness Studies might look like in education, but also broadly in the social sciences and humanities. Additionally, what does focusing on whiteness accomplish in the end, even if it aims to study it critically? Finally, the course asks what can be done, in the name of Whiteness Studies, to ameliorate racial disparities.Professors Ramona Naddaff and James Porter
Wednesday, 2-5 pm, 7415 DwinelleInquiries into the self, its nature, its possibilities, and its limits are a mainstay of contemporary theoretical, cultural, and political thought. Historical perspectives from antiquity onward are capable of challenging and enriching this kind of inquiry. The aim of this interdisciplinary graduate seminar is to investigate changing theories and practices of the self between antiquity and the present, while encouraging participants from both the humanities and social sciences to develop lines of research that meet their individual programs of study.The format of the seminar will be unusual. Conceived as an extended workshop where collaborative thinking is valued, the seminar will be organized around a series of distinguished guest speakers who have made strong contributions to the study of the self in a wide range of fields. Each invited guest will lead a seminar session based on a selection of his or her own work (published or unpublished) and accompanied by supporting primary and secondary readings. During the week prior to each visit, the seminar will be devoted to extensive discussions of the materials and the problems raised by each presenter’s topic and readings. Students will have the unique opportunity to collaborate across disciplines and to engage closely with some of the leading scholars in the humanities today.Seminar guests will include A. A. Long (Classics and Philosophy, Berkeley), Jonathan Lear (Committee on Social Thought and Philosophy, University of Chicago), Brooke Holmes (Classics, Princeton), Carolyn Walker Bynum (Institute of Advanced Studies, Princeton, emerita), Sara Magrin (Classics and Philosophy, Berkeley), and Galen Strawson (Philosophy, University of Texas, Austin).Requirements: Bi-weekly blog postings in response to the readings, in-class presentations, and a final research paper.For Fall 2016 only, this course will complete the RH200 requirement for Rhetoric graduate students. All other students should enroll in the course as a 240G or CT 290. This seminar will fulfill only one of the following requirements: RH200, RH240G or CT 290. Enrollment is limited to 20 students.Professor Hans Sluga
Wednesday, 2-4 pm, 234 MosesHegel’s Philosophy of Right contains a comprehensive statement of his mature political philosophy. It is also one of the best introductions into Hegel’s thinking as a whole. The Philosophy of Right begins with reflections on the concepts of freedom and the human person and proceeds from there, in a second part, to a discussion of morality, and then, in part 3, to a detailed examination of the family, civil society, and finally the state. Throughout the work, Hegel’s view is developmental and historical. The text ends therefore appropriately with a politically oriented view at “world history.”The goal of the seminar is a careful reading of crucial sections of Hegel’s text. It will be preceded by a discussion of two related texts: Kant’s essay “Universal History from a Cosmopolitan Point of View” and Hegel’s own “Reason in History” (the introduction to his Lectures on the Philosophy of History).The seminar will conclude with a discussion of Karl Marx’s critical notes on the Philosophy of Right.
Text: G.W.F. Hegel, Elements of the Philosophy of Right, translated by H.B. Nisbet, edited by Allen Wood, Cambridge University Press.Professor Christopher Tomlins
Tuesday, 10 am-12:40 pm, Selznick Seminar Room, 2240 Piedmont AvenueConsidered as a field of study, legal history is as much history as it is law, and history is primarily a discipline of the book. For this reason I have chosen to make this a course that focuses on books, largely books written about the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Our goal will be to explore the “main currents” of American legal history while also acquainting ourselves with the methodological and theoretical possibilities for innovation in the production of legal history that exist at the conjunction between history and other social science and humanities disciplines. The course concentrates on the United States, but to set our discussion of theory and method off with a bang, we will begin in the dark undergrowth of a forest in eighteenth century England.Over the course of the semester our goal will be to achieve a thorough and complete grounding in legal history’s formative literatures by reading a wide selection of the field’s best work, ranging from the classics that have structured the field, stirred controversy, and inspired generations of scholars (like James Willard Hurst’s Law and the Conditions of Freedom and Morton Horwitz’s Transformation of American Law), to the best work of the current generation of field leaders (like Laura Edwards’ The People and their Peace and Kunal Parker’s Legal Thought Before Modernism), to notable recent work by rising scholars (like Max Edling’s A Revolution in Favor of Government and Ken Mack’s Representing the Race). Along the way we will accumulate considerable knowledge of American legal history, while giving close critical attention to the very different ways in which scholars have chosen to write the history of American law (and the very different subjects they have considered appropriate to write about).Professor Wendy Brown
Tuesday, 9:30 am-12:00 pm, 749 BarrowsThis seminar explores theoretical accounts of the relationship of democracy to neoliberalism. Neither term will be treated as fixed or stable in meaning; however the former will be understood as comprising popular sovereignty and the latter as involving both an ensemble of state policies and a governing order of reason. Our guiding questions: Does neoliberal rationality inadvertently or directly subvert democratic presumptions or aspirations? Why and how? Through what kinds of norms, principles or programs? How does neoliberalism differ from the problem of technological rationality identified by Weber and Marcuse prior to neoliberal or financialized orders? Is the problem of neoliberalism distinct from or related to financialization and the question of how democracy can survive domination by financial markets? What, if any, are the prospects for recovering democratic political control of contemporary economic concentrations of power?In pondering these questions and others, we will be reading original neoliberal thinkers, especially where their thought addresses democracy, as well as contemporary critical theorists. Our readings will be focused on the Euro-Atlantic world; however, students are welcome to bring concerns from other quarters of the world to the seminar table. The syllabus will include work by Lippmann, Friedman, Hayek, Weber, Marcuse, Ropke, Eucken, Becker, Posner, Streeck, Offe, Habermas, Varoufakis, Biebricher, Kuhner and Krippner.Admission is by permission of instructor. You may indicate interest in the course by placing yourself on the waitlist.Professor Seth M. Holmes
Thursday, 2-5 pm, 12 HavilandThis course introduces students to the importance of social and behavioral science theory for understanding and practicing public health. Every description of, research investigation into, and intervention on a public health problem is based in theory. However, these theoretical bases are often left implicit or even entirely assumed. This course will equip students to analyze critically the theoretical assumptions on which public health research and interventions are based and to utilize these theories to understand and plan interventions related to contemporary public health problems. The course will introduce major social and behavioral science theories spanning various levels of analysis, from micro to macro, individual to global. Readings will draw from various fields, including cultural anthropology, sociology, psychology, philosophy, and population health. Students will critically engage readings and case examples in order to apply social theory to complex health problems in the real world.Professor Seth M. Holmes
Tuesday, 12-2 pm, Location TBDThis course explores the nexus of social structures, social theory, health, and health care. It will explore the origins and genealogies of the framework of structural competency, look at its relationship to other efforts to confront / critique / transform medical systems and practices, and explore its current implications, criticisms and possible applications. It will train students to analyze upstream, social structures as they influence the health and health care of individuals and populations. The course will include discussion of the ways in which students and health professionals might engage the theoretical underpinnings of this conversation as well as work to improve individual and population health through various forms and levels of action. The course will blend readings and ideas from social theory, the medical social sciences and humanities, and critical public health and medicine. In the process, the course will develop interdisciplinary conversations, critiques, and possibilities for this emerging movement in the fields of public health, medicine, and the medical social sciences and humanities.Permission required. Please attend the first meeting to discuss interest in the course.The following courses satisfy Critical Theory Designated Emphasis core course requirements.Robert Kaufman
Tuesdays, 2-5 pm, 4104 DwinelleReadings in modern, and above all modern lyric, poetry (much of it from the U.S., but also from Latin America, Europe, Asia, Africa, the Near East) in relation to major Frankfurt-School texts on aesthetics, criticism, and social theory that emphasize the significance of literature (as well as the other arts) and especially poetry. Focused concentration on the writings of Walter Benjamin and Theodor W. Adorno, and on their development of Kantian, Hegelian, and Marxian traditions of aesthetics and critical theory.  [Note: Critical Theory DE students who wish to take the course to satisfy their CT 205 “Frankfurt School”  core-course requirement are entirely welcome to do so, provided they are willing actively to study and engage with the modern poetry and poetics that will be treated as the seminar’s primary literary field, along with its primary critical-theoretical field.]  Sustained attention to how and why poetry  turns out to be so crucial to the Frankfurters’ (and, in particular, to Benjamin’s and Adorno’s) overall analyses of modernity, mechanical / technical / technological reproduction and reproducibility, and critical agency. Consideration of how Frankfurt-School concerns and legacies might engage the changed sociopolitical circumstances and artistic-aesthetic tendencies—and the changed poetry—of the last three decades; analysis in turn of how later-modernist and contemporary poets’ work may challenge Frankfurt analyses of and assumptions about poetry, aesthetic experience, and critical agency themselves. Readings of poetry throughout the course will tend to emphasize formal, stylistic, and philosophical-theoretical matters in order to highlight the question of  how—and to what degree—artistic technique, in relation to aesthetic form and aesthetic experience, may offer stimulus toward and insight into historical, sociopolitical, and ethical understanding and engagement. Some consideration of Romantic and nineteenth century poetry, and of twenty-first century poetry, but the seminar will focus primarily on twentieth-century, modernist poetry (including modernist poetry written and published during the apparently postmodern period). For a more extensive course description, go to: http://complit.berkeley.edu/courses/studies-in-symbolism-and-modern-literature/#more-16654This instance of Comparative Literature 225 counts towards Critical Theory DE students’ Critical Theory 205 requirement.Poulomi Saha
Wednesdays, 3-6 pm, 107 MulfordThis course examines the long, intimate relationship between technologies of surveillance and the making of British and American empires. While digital technology and state surveillance has been significant in the post-9/11 world, identifying, monitoring, and tracking populations and individuals has been central to the consolidation of state power for much longer. We will consider the development of technologies such as photography, fingerprinting, biometrics, and aerial drones in the context of their imbrication with imperial governance. Beginning in the late nineteenth century to the contemporary moment, this course will track the shifting forms that surveillance and the state take from the decline of British colonialism to the rise of American empire. It will look to South Asia, the Phillippines, North America, and the Middle East to ask how discourses of security, risk, and vulnerability have rationalized state policies of containment and scrutiny on the one hand, and justified and catalyzed the expansion of imperial power on the other.Readings and films may include: Foucault, Discipline and Punish; Fanon, The Wretched of the Earth; LeFebvre, The Production of Space; Hardt & Negri, Empire; Orwell, 1984; Pontecorvo, Battle of Algiers; Scott, Seeing Like a State; McCoy, Policing America’s Empire; Hathaway, The Real Glory.This instance of English 250 counts towards Critical Theory DE students’ Critical Theory 240 requirement.Damon Young
Fridays, 2-5 pm, 226 DwinelleIs the “self” of Rousseau’s Confessions the same as the self of the twenty-first century digital selfie? To what extent is subjectivity bound up in the means of its technical mediation? This course stages an encounter between histories of autobiography, theories of the subject/subjectivation, and recent developments in media theory. We will ask how the “private self” of an earlier colonial modernity was given form in the novel and the autobiography, then explore how the invention of photography and film refashioned the subject as “ideally visible,” before considering how digital media cultures generate forms of subjectivity for which the defining imperative would no longer be confession but rather circulation. We will spend some time with Foucault’s discussions of the confessional imperative that situates sexuality at the opaque foundation of the modern subject, reading them in relation to critical commentaries on the production of the “I” in literature and philosophy (works by Butler, Paige, Lucey, De Man). We will explore the interrelation of medium, subjectivity, and apparatus in theoretical works by Althusser, Deleuze, Debord, Baudrillard, Stiegler, Preciado, and others. Throughout, we will draw on specific examples of autobiography and/or self-portraiture in various media forms, from Rousseau to Proust, Varda, Godard, Sophie Calle, and contemporary vloggers. Taught in English, with texts available in French or English translation.This instance of French 265 counts towards Critical Theory DE students’ Critical Theory 240 requirement.The following courses satisfy Critical Theory Designated Emphasis elective requirements.Zeus Leonardo
Mondays, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThese interdisciplinary seminars address a series of questions. In what ways can philosophical, sociological, anthropological, historical, and psychological forms of inquiry be brought together to bear on the analysis of learning, on schooling, and on education more generally? What do we mean by critical and interpretive theories, and what are their relations with social practice? How can education come to constitute itself otherwise than in its current form?Zeus Leonardo
Tuesdays, 1-4 pm, 2320 TolmanCirca 1990, Peggy McIntosh’s “Unpacking the White Knapsack,” David Roediger’s Wages of Whiteness, and Ruth Frankenberg’s White Women, Race Matters arguably represent the beginnings of a focus on whiteness and white experiences. Since then, there has been a veritable explosion of critical work on whiteness across the disciplines. This course is designed to introduce graduate students to the area of Whiteness Studies, particularly how it has been taken up by education scholars. As a relatively recent innovation (quarter of a century old), Whiteness Studies has become a burgeoning literature across many disciplines and shifted race discourse from focusing on people of color to focusing on white racial experience. The course asks students to assess what this innovation within general race theory (as well as secondarily within other theories, such as class and gender analysis) produces in terms of greater knowledge and understanding of a general racial predicament. For example, what is particular about Whiteness Studies as a field, which classical race scholarship could not have explained adequately? In addition, the course asks what the conceptual and practical applications of Whiteness Studies might look like in education, but also broadly in the social sciences and humanities. Additionally, what does focusing on whiteness accomplish in the end, even if it aims to study it critically? Finally, the course asks what can be done, in the name of Whiteness Studies, to ameliorate racial disparities.Catherine Flynn
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 2:00-3:30 pm, 186 BarrowsIn recent years, new theories of materiality have emerged to account for physical processes and eventualities outside of human volition and identificatory categories. In this course, we will examine these theories in relation to the older paradigms—philosophical, psychoanalytic, Marxist, phenomenological and anthropological—on which they build and from which they depart. Exploring materiality in the opposing but interrelated senses of the physical world and of social, productive forces, we will read a set of foundational thinkers, such as Lucretius, Aristotle, Marx, and Freud, along with a series of theorists who respond to them in divergent ways. Two key contemporary directions under consideration will be speculative realism’s shift away from socio-linguistic and anthropocentric modes of thought and, contrastingly, the exploration of consciously queer subjectivities in feminist and other phenomenologies. Readings will be arranged in strands that develop, diverge or reflect critically: for example, Husserl, Merleau-Ponty and Sara Ahmed; Descartes, Judith Butler and Diana Coole; Marx, Derrida, and Fredric Jameson; and Hume, Quentin Meillasoux, and Martin Hägglund.Reading list: Derrida, Jacques: Spectres of Marx; Dolphijn, Rick: New Materialism: Interviews & Cartographies; Freud, Sigmund: Civilization and Its Discontents; Lucretius: The Nature of Things; Marx, Karl: Capital; Meillasoux, Quentin: After Finitude; Merleau-Ponty, Maurice: The Visible and the Invisible.Elizabeth Abel
Thursdays, 3:30-6:30 pm, 102 Barrows“Is queer modernism simply another name for modernism?” The question Heather Love poses in her special issue of PMLA will also guide this seminar on the crossovers between formal and sexual “deviance” in modernist literature. We will read back and forth across a century (Henry James to Colm Toibin, James Joyce to Alison Bechdel, Gertrude Stein to Monique Truong) to stage a series of encounters between the aesthetic practices  and discourses of modernism and those of contemporary queer theory and cultural production.  As we map the shifting contours of some key forms and terms, we will pause to consider (among other things) the mobile dimensions of queer time and space; the historical migration of concepts such as perversion, inversion, masquerade, transvestism, abjection, and shame; the mutual implication of race, gender, and sexuality; the formal attributes of the closet; the legibility of transgender bodies; and the composition of affective histories. To complement (and complicate) the chronological axis of this inquiry, we will also attend to the metropolitan spaces in which sexual boundaries blurred and subcultures thrived, especially the three urban sites central to modernist experimentation: London, New York, and Paris.Soraya Tlatli
Thursdays, 2-5 pm, 4226 DwinelleDans ce cours, nous analyserons dans un premier temps la poétique surréaliste de l’image à travers un certain nombre d’extraits littéraires et théoriques du groupe surréaliste. Dans un deuxième moment, nous interrogerons la question de l’influence surréaliste, aussi bien à propos de la politique coloniale de la France, qu’à propos de l’écriture poétique elle-même en prenant comme exemple principal le corpus d’Aimé Césaire et l’oeuvre de Kateb Yacine.Suzanne Guerlac
Wednesdays, 2-5 pm, 4226 DwinelleWith the success of Charmes, Paul Valéry became the public face of poetry in twentieth century France.  He was also an influential prose writer (Monsieur Teste), a theorist of poetics, and an author of prose poems. In private, he was a wide-ranging thinker who kept Notebooks for decades, in which he addresses issues of language, science, politics, time, and images from, we could say, the perspective of a thinking poet.It has been noted that the philosopher Jacques Derrida, who wrote a number of essays on Valéry, alludes to him frequently and often elliptically throughout his work. Some believe that Valéry anticipated Derrida on a number of important questions; others note that Valéry appears to haunt Derrida’s work.The first part of our seminar will be devoted principally to reading a range of Valéry’s works – poems, prose pieces, critical essays and some fragments from the Notebooks, along with a few critical essays on Valéry (Adorno). One of the questions we will pose is: what does it mean to think from the vantage point of a poet?This question will lead us to consider a few essays by Derrida on Valéry, and a few other texts by Derrida that allude only indirectly to Valery.  Does reading Derrida enrich our understanding of what is at stake in the poetics and thinking of Valéry?  Along the way we will consider how the “brand” Valéry enters into debates about literature, first in Sartre’s What is Literature?, and then in the context of the group Tel quel  which challenges Sartre from the perspective of Valéry in 1960, before going on to publish the major thinkers of “French Theory” including Jacques Derrida.Readings will include works such as the following of Valéry: Charmes, Monsieur Teste, “L’Idée fixe,”  “Degas, Danse, Dessin,”  “Le Cours de poétique,” “La Crise de l’esprit,” “La Politique de l’esprit” and selections from the Cahiers; essays  by Adorno and  Sartre (What is Literature?) and works by Derrida such as L’Autre Cap, “Qual quelle,” L’Animal que donc je suis, and Psyché: Inventions of the other.Diego Pirillo
Wednesdays, 2-5 pm, 6331 DwinelleIs there an Italian Theory? What are its origins and the reasons for its popularity outside of Italy? Why do most of its protagonists, regardless of their philosophical positions, share a tense and troubled relationship with political (and religious) power? The seminar will address these and other questions and introduce students to the most important figures of modern and contemporary Italian thought. Readings will include not only Antonio Gramsci and Giorgio Agamben, but a wide selection of classic authors, such as Benedetto Croce, Giovanni Gentile, Norberto Bobbio, Ernesto de Martino, Adriana Cavarero and Toni Negri. Particular attention will be given to the Italian debate on the ‘political’ (borrowing the concept from Carl Schmitt) and to the relationship between theory and politics that has marked Italian philosophy from Fascism through the Cold War to today.The course is taught in English with readings in English.Christopher Tomlins,
Tuesdays 10-12:40 pm, Selznick Seminar RoomSlavery, History, and Law (SHL) is a reading and discussion seminar. It is taught under the auspices of the Jurisprudence and Social Policy (JSP) Program and is open to JSP, JD, SJD and LLM students, and to graduate students from UC Berkeley or other area institutions. It is also offered under the auspices of the Critical Theory Program and the History Department.Slavery, History, and Law addresses the history of slavery and the law of enslavement. Our primary focus is plantation slavery in mainland North America, but we also develop a thorough comparative perspective that is empirical (Latin America, Indigenous North America, Africa, Russia) and theoretical. We examine slavery as a labor system and as a social condition, and the law that applied in both respects. We discuss slavery’s American origins, the legal and moral justifications to which it gave rise, its expansion, its politics, and its present appearances. We pay attention to new research examining the relationship between slavery and the history of capitalism, and we consider work in critical legal theory relevant to that relationship.Wendy BrownThis seminar explores the philosophical grounds and political implications of critique. Working from the problematic of the political disrepute into which critique has lately fallen, we will study premises and practices of critique in Socrates, Marx, Nietzsche, Adorno, Horkheimer, Marcuse, Habermas, and Foucault. Texts include: Plato, The Last Days of Socrates (Penguin), Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols (Oxford), Tucker, ed. The Marx-Engels Reader (Norton, 2nd edition), Kelly, ed. Critique and Power: Recasting the Foucault-Habermas Debate (MIT).Martin JayReadings included texts by Georg Lukacs, Max Horkheimer, Theodor Adorno, Walter Benjamin, Leo Lowenthal and Herbert Marcuse.Judith Butler, T.J. ClarkThis seminar will examine Nietzsche’s account of decaying systems of morality and his thoughts about possible futures. Key texts will be On the Genealogy of Morals and The Will to Power. In addition we shall explore Nietzsche’s changing conception of the aesthetic dimension in human life—not just Nietzsche’s evolving views on art, but his notion of the aesthetic as a specific and pervasive form of human practice and self-understanding problematically entwined with ethics and the life of consciousness. We will make some reference to The Birth of Tragedy (and Nietzsche’s grounds for repudiating that early work), and consider what role Nietzsche reserved for art and aesthetics when prevailing norms of truth seemed no longer credible. We will think about Nietzsche’s own work and what possibilities it opened up for artworks of the early 20th century. Did Nietzsche leave to the art of the earlier 20th century the question of what form art might take in an era when the test of Truth was no longer available? Did the task of art become to avoid, in such circumstances, either a glib acceptance of its “merely aesthetic” mission or its spurious self-elevation to religion or philosophy? The case of Picasso will be relevant here, and will be considered (selectively!) with Nietzsche’s ideas in mind.Alessia RicciardiThis course examines the genealogy and value of the libidinal vocabulary within some of the most urgent debates occurring at the contemporary intersection of political and psychoanalytic thought. We will start by exploring Freud’s and Lacan’s respective theories of desire, examining in detail the constitutive relationship of desire to loss/lack. We will continue by considering Deleuze and Guattari’s response to these psychoanalytic theories in A Thousand Plateaus. We will discuss their notion of a productive desire, which has proved to be widely influential on other theorists from Hardt and Negri to Braidotti. In considering the metamorphosis and political transformations of the concept of desire, we will examine the drift of desire toward love in its Spinozist and Christian resonances, as articulated by Negri in his essay “Kairos, Alma Venus, Multitudo.” Next, we will analyze the notion of pleasure in Foucault’s late work, particularly as elaborated in the second volume of his History of Sexuality. Why does Foucault deliberately abandon the vocabulary of desire in favor of one centered on pleasure? What are the political and biopolitical consequences of his choice? At the end of the course, we will consider the emergence of enjoyment as a necessary concept in Lacan’s later works, including a selection of Seminars VII and XVII, in order to assess his discussion of capitalism as the political organization of enjoyment.Works by Freud, Lacan, Deleuze and Guattari, Foucault, Negri, and Braidotti.Saba MahmoodThis course centers around the question of difference as it has come to be conceptualized and debated in recent postcolonial literature produced on the non-Western world. The readings for this course aim not so much at geographical representation as at thematic exploration of how the problem of “Third World difference” has been conceptualized in a variety of disciplines. Postcolonial critique, when it first emerged, was largely focused around questions of colonialism and nationalism, particularly how one might understand and explore postcolonial modernity against dominant models based on the experience of Western European societies. In this earlier moment, the question of difference was primarily posed as one of distinction between the West and non-West, the power of the former to misrepresent the latter. In recent years, these earlier debates have yielded a new probelmatization of difference as a site of epistemological, political, and ethical struggle internal to postcolonial societies. While the condition of postcoloniality cannot be thought outside the epistemic and philosophical assumptions undergirding Western knowledge production today, this new scholarship has increasingly sought to explore forms of life whose historicities, temporalities and practices depart from modular forms of Western modernity. While in the first couple of weeks we will touch upon a few key texts from the earlier debate, majority of our time will be spent reading recent work that centers around the following themes: interventionist and representational modes of power; production of sexual difference and identity; techno-economic rationalities; criminality, politics, and affect.Pheng Cheah“Critique” is commonly taken as an intellectual or theoretical activity. This course explores the original connection between critique, causality and practical force in the writings of Kant and Marx. We will begin by examining Kant’s assertion of the primacy of practical philosophy and his understanding of moral freedom as the causality of ideas in the 2nd Critique before exploring in more detail the importance of the power of aesthetic judgment in the architectonic of Kant’s critical philosophy. We will then consider Marx’s materialist critique of the idealist understanding of freedom and its connection to the aesthetic and spiritual realm and his understanding of the revolutionary force of critique. If time permits, we will look at how the Frankfurt School attempts to redeem aesthetics by reconnecting it to revolutionary force. No prior knowledge of these authors will be assumed.Texts include: Immanuel Kant, Practical Philosophy, trans. and ed. Mary Gregor (Cambridge: Cambridge U.P., 1999); Immanuel Kant, Critique of the Power of Judgment, ed. Paul Guyer (Cambridge: Cambridge U. P., 2001); Karl Marx, Early Writings, trans. Rodney Livingstone and Gregor Benton (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1992); Karl Marx, The German Ideology, trans. C. J. Arthur (International Publishers); Theodor Adorno, Aesthetic Theory, trans. Robert Hullot-Kentor (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1996).Martin Jay
Mondays, 2-4 pm, 3104 DwinelleThis course will address two interrelated questions: in the intellectual history of modern Europe: 1) what are the ways in which history has been understood to be rational? 2) in what ways has the concept of reason been understood to have had a history? We will read texts by Kant, Hegel, Heidegger, Habermas, Sloterdijk, and others, who have tried to answer these questions.Tony Kaes
Tuesdays, 2-5 pm
226 DwinelleThis seminar will focus on the critical writings on film and photography by Walter Benjamin, Siegfried Kracauer, and Theodor W. Adorno in the 1920s, 30s, and 40s. We shall engage in close readings of both classical and lesser-known texts, as well as complicate our readings with pertinent examples from film history. We will try to contextualize their arguments by relating them to the contemporaneous theories of Georg Simmel, Bert Brecht, Ernst Junger, Sergei Eisenstein, et al. We shall also study the influence and legacy of critical media theory in Guy Debord, Jean-Luc Godard, Alexander Kluge, and Harun Farocki. All texts are in English translation.Robert Kaufman
Tuesdays, 2-5 pm, 233 DwinelleThough Marxian theory will inevitably be one of its chief concerns, this seminar will not be primarily a course in Marxian theory’s relations to aesthetics, literary theory, and/or criticism—much less a course in Marxian theory itself. Rather, the seminar will reconsider in a very sustained manner some classic, highly influential texts within Marxian thought that virtually take for granted—or at least take extraordinarily seriously—the existence, and the importance to cognition (and therefore to critical thought and agency), of a distinct mode of human experience and activity known as aesthetic (with a particularly crucial version of aesthetic experience being found in the literary). The classic texts we’ll read will likely include writings by Kant, Hegel, Marx and Engels, Lenin, Trotsky, Luxemburg, Lukacs, Korsch, Brecht, Bloch, Benjamin, Adorno, Horkheimer, Sartre, Beauvoir, Williams, and Jameson.Loic Wacquant T. J. Clark
Tuesdays, 3-6 pm, 308B DoeThis seminar will explore Walter Benjamin’s notes and drafts for the unfinished book on 19th-century Paris. It will take advantage of the already substantial literature on the Arcades Project, but its main focus will be on close reading and discussion of the primary texts. We may wish to set Benjamin’s picture of Paris against more recent treatments: the histories of Louis Chevalier and Jeanne Gaillard, for example, or David Harvey’s Paris, Capital of Modernity, or Anthony Vidler’s Warped Space, or Michael Marrinan’s Romantic Paris. But again, we shall try not to get lost in textual and historical comparisons. A particular focus of concern will be Benjamin’s approach to the artistic achievement of the 19th century. His evolving conception of Baudelaire will be at the center of things, but also what he has to say—and what he does not have to say—about the visual culture of Paris at large. He is notable silent about French painting, which some would see as the century’s world-historical achievement. Why? Are there ways in which we could turn certain of Benjamin’s questions and frames of reference toward figures he largely ignores: to Manet, say, or Seurat, or Degas, or even the Nabis’ sense of the bourgeois interior?Robert KaufmanNote: Although this seminar emphasizes the fundamental importance of 19th- and 20th-century poetry and poetics to the development of Frankfurt School aesthetics, criticism, and theory, as well as the role of later 20th- and now 21st- century poetry in more recent contributions to Frankfurt-oriented criticism, the course can serve also as a survey of some of the major texts in Frankfurt aesthetic, literary, and cultural theory more generally, provided students are willing actively to study and engage with modern poetry and poetics as the course’s primary literary field. Readings in modern, and especially modern lyric, poetry (much of it from the U.S., but also from Latin America, Europe, Asia, Africa, the Near and Middle East) in relation to major Frankfurt-School texts (on aesthetics, criticism, and social theory) that emphasize the significance to the Frankfurters of literature (as well as the other arts) in general and poetry in particular; special concentration on the writings of Walter Benjamin and Theodor Adorno, and on their development of Kantian, Hegelian, and Marxian traditions of aesthetics and critical theory; sustained attention to how and whypoetry turns out to be so crucial to the Frankfurters’ (and, in particular, to Benjamin’s and Adorno’s) overall analyses of modernity, mechanical/technical/technological reproduction or reproducibility (in both the economic and artistic-aesthetic spheres), and critical agency; consideration of how Frankfurt-School concerns and legacies might engage the changed sociopolitical circumstances and artistic-aesthetic tendencies–and the changed poetry–of the last three decades; analysis in turn of how later-modernist and contemporary poets’ work may challenge Frankfurt analyses of and assumptions about poetry, aesthetic experience, and critical agency themselves. Readings of poetry throughout the course will tend to emphasize formal, stylistic, and philosophical-theoretical matters in order to highlight the consideration of how–and to what degree–artistic technique, in relation to aesthetic form and aesthetic experience (most specifically, lyric experience), may offer stimulus toward and insight into historical, sociopolitical, and ethical understanding and engagement. Some treatment of Romantic and nineteenth-century poetry, and of 21st-century poetry, but the course will focus primarily on twentieth-century, modernist poetry (including modernist poetry written and published during the apparently postmodern period). As a shared project throughout the semester, the class will read and continue discussing together in a sustained manner two volumes of poetry (a facing-page French-English volume containing Charles Baudelaire’s Les Fleurs du mal [1857] and Le Spleen de Paris/Petits Poèmes en Prose [1869]; and Michael Palmer’s Sun [1988]), while for each week’s class, students and/or the instructor also will have distributed ahead of time xeroxed texts of work by other poets (whom they will have chosen to present to, and discuss with, the rest of the class).Required Books: Michael Palmer, Sun (North Point Press, 1988) ISBN: 0-86547-345-5. [Note: This book of poetry is sometimes hard to get; but shipments of it can always be obtained from (the non-profit) Small Press Distribution, which can be reached at 1341 Seventh Street, Berkeley, CA 94710, tel. (510)524-1668 or (800)869-7553, fax (510)524- 0852, orders@spdbooks.org]; Walter Benjamin, Illuminations (Shocken, 1968); Walter Benjamin, Reflections (Schocken, 1978); Walter Benjamin, The Arcades Project (Harvard UP; 1999; 1st Harvard UP paper edition, 2002); Theodor W. Adorno and Walter Benjamin, The Complete Correspondence: 1928-1940 (translation copyright Polity Press, 1999; first Harvard UP paper edition, 2001); Theodor W. Adorno and Max Horkheimer, Dialectic of Enlightenment (Continuum; 1987); Theodor W. Adorno, Notes to Literature – Volume One (Columbia University Press; 1991); Theodor W. Adorno, Notes to Literature – Volume Two (Columbia University Press; 1992); Theodor W. Adorno, Aesthetic Theory (University of Minnesota Press, 1997); Theodor Adorno, Minima Moralia (Verso, 1974); Jean-Paul Sartre, “What is Literature?” and Other Essays, introduction by Steven Ungar (Harvard University Press, 1988); Martin Jay, The Dialectical Imagination, Revised edition (University of California Press, 1996) Along with these books (which can be purchased at the ASUC Bookstore), a course reader will contain photocopied excerpts of additional required texts, including those by Kant, Hegel, Marx, Vallejo, Duncan, Benjamin, Adorno, Marcuse, Sartre, Beauvoir, Brecht, Mayakovsky, Neruda, Zurita, Celan, various of the Surrealists, Objectivists, WC Williams, Moore, Bishop, Stevens, Paz, Duncan, Olson, Levertov, Creeley, Rich, and many others.Alessia Ricciardi
Wednesdays, 2-5 pm. Screenings: Mondays, 7-10 pm, 179 DwinellePasolini might be considered one of the most important and versatile European intellectuals of the second half of the twentieth century, a crucial figure not only of modern cinema but also of modern poetry, and cultural criticism. Through his work in different media, Pasolini emphatically questioned the roles of power, Marxism, colonialism, religion, and sexuality in contemporary life. The course will start with a selection of his poetry (from the volumes The Ashes of Gramsci, The Religion of My Time, and To Transfigure and To Organize) and continue with the critical essays written shortly before his assassination in 1975, particularly those collected in Lutheran Letters. We then will turn to Pasolini’s cinema (Accattone, La Ricotta, The Gospel According to St. Matthew, Notes Towards an African Oresteia, The Walls of Sana’a, Pigsty, Theorem, Salò) and to his critical essays on film published in Heretical Empiricism. What are the limits of Pasolini’s apocalyptic tone and romantic aesthetics? What role does his “cinema of poetry” play in performing a criticism of what he called “the anthropological mutation” and “the cultural genocide”? We will seek to address these questions through a reading of Pasolini’s texts in dialogue with selected works of Giorgio Agamben. Agamben—who began his career acting the part of an apostle in Pasolini’s Gospel—may be regarded as a crucial inheritor of Pasolini’s legacy insofar as he philosophically elaborates his predecessor’s anxiety toward the biopolitical domain in works such as Homo Sacer and State of Exception. Finally, we will compare Pasolini’s provocative rhetoric to the measured tone of Foucault’s functionalist investigation of power and explore their respective approaches to queer forms of life. In particular, we will discuss Foucault’s decisive rejection of Pasolini’s last film, Salò.Martin JayThis seminar will explore the interaction between critique and rationality since the Enlightenment. Among the topics we will address are the theological origins of modern thought and the relation between religion and critique, the legacy of German Idealism, the Frankfurt School’s distinction between traditional and critical theory, the hermeneutic and phenomenological critique of reason, the feminist response to the communicative rationalism of Habermas, and the relationship between philosophical rationalism and social rationalization. In addition to a number of secondary sources, we will read primary texts by Kant, Hegel, Weber, Horkheimer, Heidegger, Habermas and Gadamer.Robert Kaufman
Mondays, 2-5 pm, 211 DwinelleAbout 2/3 or 3/4 of this seminar will involve sustained reading and discussion of Theodor W. Adorno’s last major work, which he was still finishing at the time of his 1969 death: Aesthetic Theory (1970).Prerequisites for Enrollment: Significant familiarity with the following major texts of philosophy, aesthetics, sociopolitical and/or critical theory (for the longer texts, familiarity with at least key excerpts is sufficient) to which Aesthetic Theory offers sustained and repeated yet often extraordinarily compressed responses, on the assumption that Aesthetic Theory‘s readers are aware not only of these earlier texts (and key concepts and phenomena at issue within them, such as: the status of objective conceptuality and aesthetic non- or quasi-conceptuality; the constellation and force-field; use-value, exchange value, mechanical/technical/technological reproduction’s values over against aesthetic value; determinant and reflective judgment; commitment/engagement; mass, popular, and conceptually undetermined culture; relations among subjectivity, critical agency, class consciousness; etc.), but are also aware of something of the texts’ complicated reception histories.Major Texts with which enrollees should be familiar: Kant, Critique of Judgment; Hegel, Lectures on the Fine Arts; Phenomenology of Spirit; Marx, Theses on Feuerbach; The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte; Das Kapital (esp. chapter-section “The Secret of Commodity Fetishism”); Marx and Engels, The German Ideology; The Communist Manifesto; Walter Benjamin, “One-Way Street,” “The Storyteller,” “Surrealism,” “The Author as Producer,” “Conversations with Brecht,” “The Work of Art in the Age of its Technical Reproducibility [Mechanical Reproduction]”; “The Paris of the Second Empire in Baudelaire”; “On Some Motifs in Baudelaire”; “On the Concept of History [Theses on the Philosophy of History]”; Adorno and/or Adorno and Horkheimer: Dialectic of Enlightenment; “On Lyric Poetry and Society”; “Cultural Criticism and Society”; “Commitment [Engagement]”; “The Essay as Form”; “Parataxis”; Minima Moralia.Finally, those wishing to enroll, while not needing to feel themselves already well-versed in the following artistic movements and artists, should nonetheless have some working sense of their importance and sequencing for and within the 19th and 20th-century history of literature (poetry, prose fiction, theatre, criticism), visual art (painting, engraving and print-making, sculpture, criticism), music (chamber, symphonic, operatic, music hall and music theater, jazz, pop; music criticism, etc.), photography and cinema (and their criticism): Movements/currents/styles/periods including Romanticism, Realism, Naturalism, Symbolism, Impressionism, Modernism, Dada, Avant-Gardism, New Objectivity; Surrealism, Expressionism, Constructivism, Social/Socialist Realism, Existentialism; Postmodernism, Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism; Artists including Cervantes, Shakespeare, Goethe, Schiller, Heine, Hölderlin, Shelley, Byron, Dickens, Robert Browning, Swinburne, Mörike, Rilke, George, Baudelaire, Flaubert, Zola, Rimbaud, Mallarmé, Ibsen, Strindberg, Eliot, Pound, Williams, the Surrealist poets, novelists, and playwrights, Brecht, Lorca, Sartre, Joyce, Beckett, Celan, Bach, Haydn,. Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wagner, Berg, Webern, Schönberg, Weill, Eisler, Boulez, Cage, Stockhausen, Goya, David, Ingres, Delacroix, Gericault, Courbet, Manet, Cezanne, Monet, Picasso, Braque, Grosz, Gris, Léger, Pollock, Kline, Rothko, Guston.’Course Proceedings: About the first 1/4 or possibly 1/3 of the seminar will be devoted to very brisk review of the earlier texts mentioned above (starting with the Kant and going all the way through writings by Adorno and his Frankfurt School colleagues) including both their conceptual and historical arguments and contributions, and to rapid recounting of the aesthetic, political, and social tensions they stage and rehearse about movements, artists, critics, philosophers and theorists. This review, which will assume enrolled students’ previous (prior to this seminar) encounters with the texts concerned, will not take time for close reading. The major part of the seminar–our close, careful reading of Adorno’s Aesthetic Theory (1970)—will then seek to understand, interpret, and respond to the text’s treatments of modern art’s development in relation to mostly Kantian, Hegelian, Marxian, and earlier Frankfurt Critical Theory traditions of aesthetics and critical theory. We’ll pay ongoing attention to how and why the imaginative, potentially intersubjective activity traditionally understood to be at the heart of aesthetic experience turns out, with various twists, to be crucial to Adorno’s overall analyses of modernity, mechanical/technical/technological reproduction and reproducibility (in both the economic and artistic-aesthetic spheres), and critical agency. We’ll also consider how Aesthetic Theory’s concerns and legacies might engage the changed sociopolitical circumstances–and the changed artistic-aesthetic, critical-theoretical tendencies-of the last three decades. Among the seminar’s emphases will be an ongoing inquiry into how attention to artworks’ formal, stylistic, and philosophical-theoretical dynamics (that is, how—and to what degree—artistic technique, in relation to aesthetic form and aesthetic experience) may offer stimulus toward and insight into historical, sociopolitical, and ethical understanding and engagement.Wendy Brown
Seminar: Thursdays, 2-4 pm, 111 Kroeber.
Lecture: Tuesdays & Thursdays, 11 am-12:30 pm, 126 BarrowsA weekly seminar on political thought from the Renaissance to the French Revolution. Early modern political theorists, typically including Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, and Burke.Please note: Students who take 212B are required to attend the lecture for 112B, which meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays 11:00am-12:30 pm in 126 Barrows. (where questions of life and information enter in)
Suzanne Guerlac
Tuesdays, 2-5 pm, 201 Wheeler*Please note: All readings will be in the original French* Taking advantage of the rubric “Modern French Thought”, which enables us to work across centuries, we will undertake to analyze discourses from the “sciences humaines” that emerge in the 19th c. in France, become authoritative in the 20th c. and are put into question in the 21st. The topics we will address can be provisionally broken down in the following way: Step 1) Examine the notion of civilization as it gets constructed in the wake of the French Revolution and becomes altered in relation to the colonial project, as “civilization” becomes one term in the opposition between the “civilized” and the “primitive” in early twentieth century social theory. Step 2) Examine discourses of humanité and humanism and how they finesse exclusions based on race, religion, etc. and what would be at stake in universalizing them. Step 3) Examine notions of “life,” considering how the limits of the human have recently been put into question in terms of the boundaries between the human and the animal on the one hand and between the human and the artificial (or information machines) on the other. (For Bruno Latour, for example the concept of the human subject is to be replaced by a notion of “humans and nonhumans.”) Without trying to accomplish a history of ideas we will follow a number of threads such as the thread from “public opinion” in the early 19th C to “information” in the 21st, or from discourses of emancipation (human rights) to discourses of sustainability. Although we may include some literary works in our readings (depending on time and interest) our main focus will be to trace fundamental conceptual shifts and tensions in relation to changing historical and political situations. I welcome input from interested students concerning final selection of readings (student projects that concern gender studies or literary works would be welcome but because of time constraints, this will not be the focus of our readings). Readings will includes works (or selections of works) by authors such as Mme de Staël (Comment terminer la Révolution?), Guizot (La Civilisation en Europe), Hyppolite Taine (De l’Intelligence), Renan (L’Avenir de la science) Gobineau (Essai sur l’inegalité des races), Drumont (La France Juive), Durkheim (L’Education Morale; Les formes élémentaires de la vie religieuse), Gabriel Tarde (De l’imitation), Bergson (Les Deux Sources de la Morale et de la Religion), Bruno Latour (La Politique de la Nature), Derrida (L’animal que donc je suis), and essays by people like Deleuze, Peter Sloterdijk, and Luciano Floridi (on the philosophy of information).Abdul JanMohamed
Tuesdays & Thursdays, 2-3:30 pm, 51 EvansBuilding on O. Patterson’s notion of “social death” and my own definition of the “death-bound-subject,” this course will examine black feminist (mostly neo-slave and Jim Crow) narratives that are concerned with the “birthing” of the death- bound-subject, with the aporetic predicament of the black (slave) mother whose “gift of life” can be immediately appropriated via the threat of death. Methodologically, we will approach these issues from Marxian, psychoanalytic, phenomenological, and feminist viewpoints. Theoretically, I am particularly interested in interrogating Marxian concepts such as “reproduction of the relations of production” and “primitive accumulation” from psychoanalytic and feminist viewpoints. These novels, however, are extremely rich and their articulation of the coercions and resistances that attend the slave maternal subject position can be read/critiqued from any number of vantage points.Book list: Morrison, T.: Beloved; Walker, A.: Third Life of Grange Copeland; Butler, O.: Kindred; Jones, G.: Corregidora; Petry, A.: The Street; Larsen, N.: Quicksand and Passing; Williams, S. A.: Dessa Rose; Recommended: Butler, O.: Bloodchild and Other Stories; JanMohamed, A.: The Death-Bound-Subject.Victoria Kahn
Tuesdays, 2-5 pm, 102 LatimerWhat do we mean by “early modern?” How has the concept of the early modern been constructed? How have twentieth-century theorists and philosophers read early modern texts and with what consequences for contemporary theory? In this course, we will focus on a group of twentieth-century European critics who turned to early modern texts to make sense of the crisis of modernity during the interwar period. Rather than exploring how the early modern period anticipated modern ideas of liberalism, rights, and scientific progress (one standard reading of the period), these critics focused instead on the ways in which the early modern period contributed to a crisis of historicism and secular reason that in turn fueled new forms of political theology, including fascism and totalitarianism, in the twentieth century. Of particular concern to the modern theorists was a constellation of issues that are directly relevant to critical debates today: the meaning of political theology, the relationship between secularism and historicism, and the role of literary culture in the newly secular European nation-states. The moderns we will consider include Carl Schmitt, Leo Strauss, Alexandre Kojève, Walter Benjamin, Ernst Kantorowicz, Hannah Arendt, Louis Althusser and Etienne Balibar. The early moderns include Machiavelli, Hobbes, Shakespeare, and Spinoza.Zeus Leonardo
Wednesdays, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThis course is designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society. As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical theory of education. Additionally, the nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations. This understanding will be instructive for our ability to confront the contours of inequality and the everyday effects of “privilege.”Chenxi Tang
Thursdays, 3-5 pm, 282 Dwinelle“Law and Literature” has emerged as one of the most vibrant interdisciplinary fields during the past two decades. This research seminar probes the potential of this field by reading some key texts of modern German literature from the 18th to the 20th century. Readings include Goethe, Schiller, Hegel, E. T. A. Hoffmann, Kleist, Buechner, Wagner, Kafka, Brecht, Benjamin, Carl Schmitt and Peter Weiss. Readings in German or English, discussions in English.Karen Feldman
Wednesdays, 12-2 pm, 201 WheelerThis course will examine 1930s Frankfurt-School thought. Topics will include the exchanges between Adorno and Benjamin on the autonomy of art and the philosophy of history.Rakesh Bhandari
Fridays 2-5 pm, 186 BarrowsWe will read several recent critical theoretical accounts of society and the economy. Problems that we take up will include the following: Habermas’ analysis of the multi-dimensionality of economic crisis, Baudrillard’s study of the semiotics of the commodity form, Postone’s investigation of run-away growth and the treadmill of production, Deleuze and Guattari’s rethinking of desire, flow and territory in relation to the axiomatics of capital, Brown’s study of the after- life of the nation-state form in an age of globalization, Foucault’s and Rajan’s different conceptualizations of biopower in relation to the economy, Hardt’s and Negri’s claim of the centrality of biopolitical production to modern capitalism, Boltanski’s and Chiapello’s study of the roles of social and aesthetic critiques in the remaking of capitalism, Desai’s attempted recuperation of Marx as a theorist of globalization, and essays by various authors drawing out the global implications of the recent financial crisis. Reading excerpts will be drawn from the following works: Jürgen Habermas, Legitimation Crisis; Jean Baudrillard, Symbolic Exchange and Death; Moishe Postone, Time, Labor and Social Domination: a Reinterpretation of Marx’s Critical Theory; Gilles Deleuze & Félix Guattari, Anti-Oedipus and A Thousand Plateaus; Wendy Brown, Walled States, Waning Sovereignties; Michel Foucault, The Birth of Biopolitics; Michael Hardt & Antonio Negri, Commonwealth; Kaushik Sunder Rajan, Biocapital: The Constitution of Postgenomic Life; Luc Boltanski & Eve Chiapello, The New Spirit of Capitalism; Luc Boltanski, On Critique: A Sociology of Emancipation; Meghnad Desai, Marx’s Revenge: The Resurgence of Capitalism and The Death of Statist Socialism: Essays from the three volume collection on the financial crisis, edited by Georgi Derluguian and Craig Calhoun.Samera EsmeirThis seminar explores a number of theoretical and historical texts that engage the problem of violence in relation to politics. The main questions that guide our inquiry are: What are the grounds from which theorists and historians approach the question of violence? When the works are critical of violence, what are the grounds guiding the work of critique? To address these questions, the first part of the seminar considers texts that inquire into the possibility of ethics in the midst of violence, destruction and devastation. This part should equip us with a set of reflections and methodologies for thinking about violence and politics. In the second part, we focus on a number of canonical political theory works and examine their approach to the question of politics and violence. In this part, we are mainly concerned with the conditions of possibility of these works, including their critical sensibilities. With the help of other texts primarily from the discipline of history, we will finally examine a number of twentieth century political projects that were institutionalized in relation to violence and that represented some of the legacies of modern political theory.
Required Reading: Jonathan Lear, Radical Hope: Ethics in the Face of Cultural Devastation (Harvard University Press, 2008); Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Humanism and Terror: The Communist Problem, Transaction Publishers; 2 edition (August 29, 2000); Stanley Cavell, Cora Diamond, John McDowell, Ian Hacking & Cary Wolfe, Philosophy & Animal Life, Columbia University Press (November 26, 2009); Jean-Jacques Rousseau, The Social Contract and The First and Second Discourses, Yale University Press (March 1, 2002); Edmund Burke, Reflections on the Revolution in France, Oxford University Press, USA, Reissue edition (June 15, 2009); Immanuel Kant, Perpetual Peace and other Essays on Politics, History and Morals, Hackett Pub Co. (February 1, 1983); Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, The Communist Manifesto, SoHo Books (September 10, 2011); Carl Schmitt, A Theory of the Partisan: Intermediate Commentary on the Concept of the Political, Telos Press Publishing (July 1, 2007); Dan Edelstein, The Terror of Natural Right: Republicanism, the Cult of Nature and the French Revolution, University Of Chicago Press (November 15, 2010); Mark Mazower, No Enchanted Palace: The End of Empire and the Ideological Origins of the United Nations (Princeton University Press, 2008); Sam Moyn, The Last Utopia: Human Rights in History, Harvard University Press (September 15, 2010).Marcial Gonzalez
Tuesdays, 3-6:30 pm, 202 WheelerIn the early 1990s, literary theorist Fredric Jameson responded to journalists who were at once proclaiming the emergence of a rejuvenated capitalist “new world order” and asserting the death of Marxism. “It does not seem to make much sense,” he wrote, “to talk about the bankruptcy of Marxism, when Marxism is very precisely the science and the study of just that capitalism whose global triumph is affirmed in talk of Marxism’s demise.” What we can infer from Jameson’s comments is the idea that historically Marxism has been useful not only for the critique of social systems, but for the study of literature and culture, as well. Two decades later—and with the political, economic and environmental contradictions of the “new world order” now in plain sight—critics might benefit once again from reassessing the appropriateness of Marxism for the study of literature and culture. This course will provide the opportunity for such a reassessment by focusing on the ways that Marxist social thought in the past ninety years has contributed to theories of literature and culture. We will attempt to understand and theorize the relation between the material conditions of social life and aesthetic forms. The goal of the course is to provide a broad introduction to the range of Marxist analysis and critique in contemporary literary and cultural studies. In the first part of the course, we will read several classic works of Marxist theory to ground our study historically. In the second part of the course, driven partly by student concerns and interests, we will analyze the compatibility of Marxist literary theory with feminism, critical race studies, and postcolonial studies. Book list: Jameson, F., Marxism and Form: Twentieth-century Dialectical Theories of Literature; Adorno T., et. al., Aesthetics and Politics; Sartre, J-P., Search for a Method; Vološinov, V. N., Marxism and the Philosophy of Language; Williams, R., Marxism and Literature; Derrida, J., Specters of Marx: The State of the Debt, the Work of Mourning, and the New International; Althusser, L., For Marx; a course reader. Recommended: Lukács, G., Realism in Our Time (out of print).Suzanne Guerlac
Thursdays, 2-5 pm, 4226 DwinelleThe purpose of this course is to introduce students to canonical texts and issues in French theory. The course is designed to match a certain number of texts from the 1960s and 1970s with extracts from classical philosophical works, the knowledge of which is presupposed by these authors. So we will read selections from Hegel’s Phenomenology of Mind along with Sartre, Marx along with Althusser, etc. The course also has a thematic organization that allows for the introduction of specific terms and categories that students need to know, such as “commodity,” “ideology,” “genealogy,” “semiology,” etc. The principal rubrics are #1 History/Ideology/Culture, which includes readings by Althusser, Marx, Sartre, Barthes and Foucault, #2 Genealogy, which includes readings by Foucault and Nietzsche, #3 The subject and the other, which includes readings by Hegel, Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir and Monique Wittig, #4 The subject and language, which includes readings by Saussure, Benveniste, Jakobson, and Derrida (his poststructuralist critique of the sign) #5, Psychoanalysis, with readings from Freud, Lacan and Deleuze (his critique of Freud) and finally #6, the critique of metaphysics, with Derrida’s essay “La Différance” which presented a rigorous critique of phenomenology. The goal of the course is to present materials that will enable students to learn to read critically material they have felt excluded from for lack of background in “theory.” Part of the work of the course will be to contextualize each work studied and to engage students with rigorous critical discussion of it.Martin Jay
Fridays, 2-5 pm, 201 WheelerNo intellectual of our time has generated as many productive controversies as the leading figure of the second generation of the Frankfurt School, Jürgen Habermas. Embodying in his own practice the principles of communicative rationality he so avidly defends on the level of theory, Habermas has responded to an extraordinary number of interlocutors, and in so doing raised the level of intellectual discourse in several different contexts. This course will combine readings of several of his own seminal texts with an examination of the rebuttals and counter-rebuttals they have engendered.Anton Kaes
Mondays, 1-6 pm, 226 Dwinelle HallThis seminar explores the emergence and formal variety of the essay film, which has recently caught the attention of film scholars. A hybrid genre of non-narrative cinema, the essay film mixes documentary and experimental forms to “think through” philosophical, ethical, and film-theoretical issues with a high degree of self-reflexivity. We will analyze representative essay films from the 1960s to the present by Alexander Kluge, Harun Farocki, Werner Herzog, Wim Wenders, Hans-Jürgen Syberberg, Gustav Deutsch, and Helke Sander, and bring these German works into dialogue with classic essay films by Chris Marker, Jean-Luc Godard, Agnes Varda, Chantal Akerman, Guy Debord, et al. Readings will include texts from phenomenology, semiotics, and critical theory, as well as current reflections on new media. All films will have English subtitles.Zeus Leonardo
Mondays, 1-4 pm
This course is designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society. As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical theory of education. Additionally, the nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations. This understanding will be instructive for our ability to confront the contours of inequality and the everyday effects of “privilege.”Saba MahmoodIn this course we will explore how the concept and practice of humanrights is predicated on the doctrine of political sovereignty and its differential exercise across nation-states. Taking the Arendtian argument that there are no human rights without political rights as our point of departure, we will ask the following questions: Why is political sovereignty crucial to the realization of human rights? How is political sovereignty differentially weighted between western and non-western nations? How does this affect the practice and conceptualization of human rights? What is the promise of human rights in the current political moment? How does “the postcolonial condition” force us to reconceptualize the truth of human rights? Some of the authors that we will read are: Giorgio Agamben, Antony Anghie, Hannah Arendt, Sam Moyn, Mark Mazower, Erica Bornstein, Vinh- Kim Nguyen, Mahmood Mamdani, Jens Bartelson, Siba Grovogui, Martti Koskenniemi, Sally Merry, Jane Cowan, and others.Hans Sluga
Wednesdays, 2-4 pmReadings will include texts from Kant, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Collingwood, and Foucault as well as discussions of these materials.Robert Kaufman
Tuesdays 2-5pm, 210 DwinelleThis Ph.D. seminar will reconsider some classic/canonical, highly influential texts within Marxian thought that virtually take for granted—or at least take extraordinarily seriously—the existence, and the importance to critical thought and agency—of a distinct mode of human experience and activity usually called aesthetic. Though our readings will engage various arts and cultural practices, they will emphasize literary art. The classic texts we’ll read will include writings by Kant, Hegel, Marx and Engels, Luxemburg, Lukács, Du Bois, Brecht, Benjamin, Adorno, Horkheimer, Sartre, Beauvoir, Raymond Williams, and Jameson. Time permitting, we’ll also try to look briefly at (or at least gesture toward) aesthetics- focused texts by Percy Shelley, Heine, Lenin, Trotsky, Gramsci, Korsch, Mariátegui, Kracauer, Bloch, Marcuse, and Althusser.Julia Bryan-Wilson
Wednesdays 9 am-12 pm, 308B DoeRecent artists and theorists alike understand art making as a form of labor—that is, as purposeful effort structured by specific class relations and economic imperatives. However, at the same time, art is often explicitly contrasted to work—the “free” and “unproductive” counterpoint to the grind of alienated wage labor under capitalism. This seminar will examine a range of writings that variously assert that art is labor and that it as leisure. Artistic production has also been theorized as a paradigm for what is called “postwork,” given its emphasis on flexible labor and creative knowledge production. What work do these theorists ask art to do? And how do various conceptions of labor lead to starkly opposing opinions about the relationship between art, autonomy, the culture industry, and elitism?Karen Feldman
Wednesdays 12-2 pm, 282 DwinelleThis course will consider various literary-theoretical approaches to the question of how textual interpretation is mediated by reception. Thus it will investigate to what degree formal and aesthetic textual analysis is conditioned by historical factors, and also how historical interpretation is conditioned by assumptions about literary form. We will read authors in the German tradition of reception theory (e.g. Iser, Jauss); literary formalism (e.g. Shklovsky); and deconstruction (e.g. de Man); as well as some classic authors of German literary and historical thought (e.g. Koselleck, Staiger, Blumenberg).Tony Kaes
Seminar: Mondays 1-4 pm
Screenings: Mondays 4-6 pm, 282 DwinelleThe seminar will focus on the critical writings on film and photography by Walter Benjamin, Siegfried Kracauer, and Theodor W. Adorno from the 1920s to the 1960s. We shall engage in close readings of their major works on media theory and illustrate (as well as complicate) our readings with pertinent examples from film history. We contextualize their arguments by relating them to the contemporaneous theories of Georg Simmel, Bert Brecht, Sergei Eisenstein, et al. We shall also address the legacy of critical media theory in Guy Debord, Jean-Luc Godard, Alexander Kluge, and Friedrich Kittler. All texts are in English translation.Zeus Leonardo
Mondays 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThese interdisciplinary seminars address a series of questions. In what ways can philosophical, sociological, anthropological, historical, and psychological forms of inquiry be brought together to bear on the analysis of learning, on schooling, and on education more generally? What do we mean by critical and interpretive theories, and what are their relations with social practice? How can education come to constitute itself otherwise than in its current form?Hans Sluga
Monday 2-4pm, 234 MosesAn examination of Foucault’s writings in the light of recent revelations about global surveillance. Texts will include Foucault’s Discipline and Punish and The Birth of the Clinic as well as works by Hanna Arendt, Juergen Habermas, and contemporary writers on surveillance such as Evgeny Morozov.Aiwha Ong
Monday 1-3 pm, 317 KroeberIn this seminar, we consider how assemblage as concept and as actual configuration is a critical move in anthropology, science studies, sociology, geography, and urban studies.Assemblage theory — drawing on Deleuze & Guattari, and Foucault — is a critical mode of inquiry into the varied manifestations of “the global” beyond claims of totality and uniformity.  The concept identifies the dynamic combination and recombination of relationships that shape emerging contexts of experimentation that do not neatly overlap with or can even transcend political borders.Assemblage concepts are replacing old categories of “society,” “culture,” “nation,” and “globalization” as anthropologists, sociologists, geographers explore new ways to frame spaces of inquiry that capture the heterogeneity of elements involved in the making of particular problem-spaces of life and living.At the same time, researchers are identifying assemblages as actual configurations of emerging global situations crystallized by the situated interactions of expert systems (rationalities of capitalism, governing, urban planning, science & technologies). Assemblage thus directs attention to the work of assembling global forms and practices of problematization, contestation, and intervention on the ground.We will review a range of approaches to assemblage, from anthropology to STS to international relations that seek to understanding new practices, spatialities and variations in modernity that define what it means to be human today.Zeus Leonardo
Monday, 1-4pm, 4529 TolmanThis course is designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society.  As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical theory of education.  Additionally, the nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations.  This understanding will be instructive for our ability to confront the contours of inequality and the everyday effects of “privilege.”Karen Feldman
Wednesday 1-4pm, 282 DwinelleIn this graduate course we will read historians and theorists of history including Wilhelm von Humboldt, Leopold von Ranke, Wilhelm Dilthey, Friedrich Nietzsche, Reinhart Koselleck, Hayden White and others. The goal will be to understand how different models of narrativity are involved in different theories of history, and also to consider how “Begriffsgeschichte” (or conceptual history) can be deployed within ideology critique.Erica Weitzman
Thursday 4-7pm, 134 DwinelleThis course will offer an overview of the fundamentals of irony and its theoretization from Socrates to the present day. We will examine the history of irony in all its permutations, as well as the various positions irony occupies within rhetoric, ontology, aesthetics, politics, and literary theory. Above all, we will ask the question of why the seemingly simple matter of irony proves to be such a tenacious problem in Western thought, and why it continues to be a topic of debate and controversy (including repeated calls for and announcements of its “end”) up to today. Readings will include works by Plato, Schlegel, Hegel, Kierkegaard, Baudelaire, Benjamin, de Man, Deleuze, Derrida, Rorty, and Butler, as well as literary texts by Flaubert, Walser, Mann, and others.Prof. Ramona Naddaff
Wednesdays, 3-6 pm, 7415 DwinelleThis course will investigate certain of the critical philosophical interventions in the fields of ethics, politics, and epistemology from the seventeenth to the nineteenth centuries.  Our aim will be double.  On the one hand, we will engage in a survey of the major thinkers who queried and defined the notion of “critique”: Descartes, Hume,  Kant, Hegel, Marx, and Nietzsche.  On the other hand, we will concentrate specifically on the dialectical relation of these authors.  We will attempt to reconstruct, through textual exegesis and commentary, the dialogues ignited by their works, especially the movements from the Kantian “Copernican Revolution” and its aspirations towards an autonomous reason to Hegel’s “absolute idealism” to the critiques and philosophical perspectives and methodologies that emerge in their aftermath.  We will also commit to a reading  of one French philosopher, Gilles Deleuze whose monographs on Hume, Kant and Nietzsche concentrate particularly on the nexus of knowledge, sensation, subjectivity and ethics.Prof. Robert Kaufman
Tuesdays, 2-5 pm, 4104 Dwinelle[For a more extensive description of this seminar, go to the following UC Berkeley Comparative Literature Department Spring 2015 courses page: http://complit.berkeley.edu/?page_id=10171]This seminar (cross-listed as Comparative Literature 221 and Rhetoric 221) is not an introduction to Adorno; rather, it involves sustained reading and discussion of Adorno’s last major text, Aesthetic Theory (1970). What makes possible such sustained reading of a dense, famously difficult work, is at least some familiarity with figures, texts, and artistic, aesthetic, and political movements that Aesthetic Theory assumes its readers to have had some acquaintance with, including—among many others—the French Revolutions of 1789, 1830, 1848, and 1871, Lenin, the Bolshevik Revolution, Marxism-Leninism, Romanticism, Realism, Symbolism, Naturalism, Modernism, Dada, Surrealism, Avant-Gardism, Social and Socialist Realism, Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism, Postmodernism (to mention only a few!!!). Aesthetic Theory likewise assumes that readers have at least some familiarity with Kant, Hegel, Marx and Engels, Lukács, and Benjamin, as well as with Adorno’s own earlier works.Our first one or two class sessions will be devoted to an extremely brisk sketching of the earlier texts, figures, and political/artistic/critical movements, along with a history of underlying concepts and practices. The major part of the semester’s undertakings—our close, careful reading of Aesthetic Theory–-will then seek, starting in the second or third session, to understand, interpret, and respond to the text’s treatments of modern art’s development on its own terms, and in relation to sociopolitical history, as well as to various traditions of aesthetics and critique (above all, to Kantian, Hegelian, and Marxian criticism). We’ll pay ongoing attention to how and why the imaginative, potentially intersubjective activity traditionally understood to be at the heart of aesthetic experience turns out, with various twists, to be crucial to Adorno’s overall analyses of modernity, mechanical/ technical/technological reproduction and reproducibility (in both the economic and artistic-aesthetic spheres), and critical agency. We’ll also consider how Aesthetic Theory’s concerns and legacies might engage the changed sociopolitical circumstances—and the changed artistic-aesthetic, critical-theoretical tendencies—of the last four decades. Among the seminar’s emphases will be an ongoing inquiry into how attention to artworks’ formal, stylistic, and philosophical-theoretical dynamics (the relation of artistic technique to aesthetic form and aesthetic experience) may offer stimulus toward, and insight into, historical, sociopolitical, and ethical understanding and engagement.*Also qualifies at CT 240 core course. Please contact rlindahl-lynch.cir@berkeley.edu.Prof. Saba Mahmood
Tuesdays, 9 am – 12 pm, 219 KroeberRecent scholarship in the disciplines of history, anthropology and philosophy has definitively challenged the once-influential account of secularism as the separation of church and state, religion and law, and ecclesiastical and political authority. Instead scholars argue that modern secularism entails fundamental shifts in conceptions of self, time, space, ethics, and morality, as well as a reorganization of social, political, and religious life. In this course, we will explore the relationship between political secularism and secularity: while the former pertains to the modern state’s regulation of religious life, the latter refers to the set of concepts, norms, sensibilities, and dispositions that characterize secular societies and subjectivities. We will read authors from the disciplines of anthropology, literary theory, history, theology, and philosophy.*Also qualifies at CT 240 core course. Please contact rlindahl-lynch.cir@berkeley.edu.Prof. Judith Butler
Tuesdays, 2-5 pm, 308B Doe LibraryThis elective will conduct a close reading of Benjamin’s important text, considering the relationship between mythic and divine violence, the strike and the messianic, and the meaning of legal violence. We will consider his view on the coercive dimensions of law and subject-formation as well as his understanding of critique, making reference to short works written during that period. In the second part of the semester, we will consider critical theoretical texts that directly or indirectly comment on Benjamin or on the issue of legal violence. Those readings will include essays by Robert Cover, Hannah Arendt, Giorgio Agamben, and Frantz Fanon.Prof. Saba Mahmood
Tuesdays, 9 am – 12 pm, 219 KroeberRecent scholarship in the disciplines of history, anthropology and philosophy has definitively challenged the once-influential account of secularism as the separation of church and state, religion and law, and ecclesiastical and political authority. Instead scholars argue that modern secularism entails fundamental shifts in conceptions of self, time, space, ethics, and morality, as well as a reorganization of social, political, and religious life. In this course, we will explore the relationship between political secularism and secularity: while the former pertains to the modern state’s regulation of religious life, the latter refers to the set of concepts, norms, sensibilities, and dispositions that characterize secular societies and subjectivities. We will read authors from the disciplines of anthropology, literary theory, history, theology, and philosophy.*Also qualifies at CT 240 core course. Please contact rlindahl-lynch.cir@berkeley.edu.Professors Anton Kaes and Deniz Göktürk
SEM, Mon 1-4 pm, 226 Dwinelle
Lab, Mon 4-6 pm, 226 DwinelleThis seminar will examine the social dynamics of laughter across multiple media. A basic impulse of comedy — from slapstick to mockumentary to standup — is to temporarily destabilize and critique the status quo by revealing its unquestioned assumptions and contradictions. In this way the comic mode has affinities to critical theory. It is no surprise that Benjamin, Kracauer, and Adorno wrote repeatedly on Chaplin and on the social function of comic interventions. More recently, comics intervene by mobilizing tactical role-play and inviting the audience to join in their game of exposure. Classic texts on comedy by Freud, Bergson, Benjamin, Adorno, Brecht, and Bakhtin, as well as their forerunners from classical antiquity to German idealism, will help us think through representative examples from various national cinemas and the internet.Prof. Zeus Leonardo
Mondays, 1-4 pm, 4529 TolmanThis course is designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society. As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical theory of education. Additionally, the nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations. This understanding will be instructive for our ability to confront the contours of inequality and the everyday effects of “privilege.”Prof. Eglantine Colon
Wednesdays, 1-4 pm, 4226 DwinelleThis seminar will introduce students to recent theoretical texts written in French and investigate their relationships with the “French Theory” of the 1960s and 1970s.  Starting with a few key readings in French Theory, we will map out the different theoretical positions and philosophical traditions that the term covered, while also interrogating this very denomination to replace it in the American context of its creation, and the French context of its production. This will be a point of departure for a study of major theoretical texts written in French from the 1990s onwards, which will be contextualized in relation to earlier tendencies in French thought (reading, for instance, Rancière with and against Althusser, or Mbembe in relation to Foucault and Deleuze), and analyzed in relation to the more recent theoretical trajectories they participate in creating. After an introduction to contemporary theory centered on Derrida’s Spectres de Marx (1993), the seminar will be organized in four sections, which are designed to cover some of the central texts and issues in contemporary theory. #1 The question of community in a post/neo-Marxist, neo-capitalist context. #2 Race and biopolitics. #3 Globalization. #4 Contemporary renewals in the relations between philosophy, the aesthetic and the political, through some of Jacques Rancière’s key writings. For their oral presentations, students will be asked to study theoretical texts in relation to a literary or cinematic work. Ample room will be devoted to refining the methods we use when bringing texts and images in dialogue with theory. In addition to oral presentations, students will write a final research paper related to their own area of specialization.We will most likely read (the entirety or excerpts of) the following texts:Catherine Malabou, La plasticité au soir de l’écriture ; Jacques Derrida, L’écriture et la différence; Michel Foucault, Histoire de la sexualité I, La volonté de savoir; François Cusset, French Theory; Jacques Derrida, Spectres de Marx; Maurice Blanchot, La communauté inavouable; Jean-Luc Nancy, La communauté désœuvrée & La communauté affrontée; Giorgio Agamben, La communauté à venir; Achille Mbembe, Critique de la raison nègre; Etienne Balibar & Immanuel Wallerstein, Race, Nation, Classe. Les identités ambiguës; Jean-Luc Nancy, La création du monde ou la mondialisation; Jacques Rancière, La leçon Althusser; La mésentente; Politique de la littérature, La fable cinématographique.*The seminar will take place in English. Readings will be in French.
*CT Students, please register through French 274.
*Also qualifies at CT 240 core course. Please contact rlindahl-lynch.cir@berkeley.edu.Prof. Loic Wacquant
Thursdays, 4-7 pm, 402 BarrowsA systematic dissection of the epistemological principles, methodological stance, theoretical tools and empirical enquiries of Bourdieu in relation to classical and contemporary strands of social theory.*CT Students please register through Sociology 202B.
*By instructor permission only.Prof. Niklaus Largier
Tuesdays, 3-6 pm, 282 DwinelleSo-called ‘mystical’ forms of thought and experience have played a major role in the history of modern philosophy and literature from Hegel to Georg Lukàcs, Martin Heidegger, Georges Bataille, and Jacques Derrida, and from Novalis to Robert Musil, Paul Celan, Ingeborg Bachmann, Pierre Klossowski, and John Cage (to name just a few). In this seminar we will read and discuss key texts written by Eckhart of Hochheim (Meister Eckhart), Mechthild of Magdeburg, and Hadewijch of Antwerp, some of the most significant medieval figures in this tradition. During a second phase of the seminar we will turn our attention to baroque mysticism, especially Angelus Silesius and Jacob Böhme. Based on the class discussion and on individual student interests, we will then look into the ways how these texts have been read by 19th and 20th century authors and explore the impact they had on the formation of modern concepts of (and discussions about) subjectivity, affect, and agency. Depending on student interests, we will decide on a final version of the syllabus at the first meeting of class.  Professor Deniz Göktürk
Thursday, 3-7 pm, 282 DwinelleIn light of the EU’s and individual nation-states’s policy of enforcing their borders and differentiating between “real” refugees and economic migrants, this seminar will question approaches to research on transnational mobility and cultural diversity through the lens of aesthetic interventions, moving images, and literature. Our focus will be on the role of audiovisual media in projecting and complicating social imaginaries. Theoretical texts by Adorno, Arendt, Balibar, Clifford, Hall, Roemhild, Sassen and many others will complement our diachronic analyses.Professor Suzanne Guerlac
Tuesday, 1-4 pm, 4226 DwinelleWhat does it mean to think “life” in the context of technological production and monetization of “life”? How can we think “life” in the Anthropocene Age? Does the current scientific investment in the notion of “emergence” mean an end to the conflict between vitalists and mechanists? These are some of the questions that will guide our attempt to investigate the possibilities of critical vitalism for thinking about the world we live in. A first step will be to look back at Lebensphilosophie in the German context (Dilthey and others) and its subsequent appropriation by Nazi ideology (Klages). Instead of simply reinstating this shame we will attempt to think through it critically and to resituate the question of life in relation to both ecological and technological realities. We will reconsider opportunities (especially those offered by Bergson and Simmel) to think “life” in terms not exclusively human. Toward the end of the semester we will consider efforts toward ”critical vitalism” by people like Brian Massumi, Bruno Latour, and Fréderic Worms (who will be visiting our class for the last two weeks of the semester). We will also consider debates concerning the notion of “emergence” in the context of synthetic biology (Claus Emmeche) and the effects of philosophies of information (Luciano Floridi) on our understanding of “life.”Professor Dylan Riley
Monday, 10 am-12 pm, 402 BarrowsThis course is a review of the Marxist tradition of political thought. The course begins by reviewing the strategic debates within Marxism among such major figures as: Bernstein, Engels, Gramsci, Kautsky, Lenin, Luxemburg, Marx and Trotsky. The class then traces these discussions forward to the high period of neo-Marxist political theorizing in the seventies (Miliband, Poulantzas and Therborn) before examining what Marxisant and non-Marxisant voices have to say about our contemporary circumstances (Anderson, Mann, Wright). Students are expected to have a basic grasp of classical social theory as a pre-requisite for attending the seminar.Professor Poulomi Saha
Tuesday & Thursday, 12:30-2 pm, 201 WheelerThis course considers the relationship between the development of critical theory and the colonized and postcolonial worlds. It asks how and where histories, cultures, and philosophies of the global south appear and intersect with continental philosophy. Rather than pursue this question genealogically, this course is invested in producing a nexus of inquiry through three sites of (post)coloniality – North Africa, the Indian Subcontinent, and East Asia – and a variety of reading practices and methodologies. If, as Tim Brennan has argued, “The telos of the imperial project is reached when the third-world subject is able to deconstruct the epistemic violence of colonialism only by way of Continental theory,” what are the politics and epistemologies that emerge from this consideration? What are its pitfalls? And what alternate ways of reading and thinking about literature, culture, politics, and affect might develop from thinking together the continental tradition and the colonial world?Readings may include texts from Assia Djebar, Frantz Fanon, GWF Hegel, Walter Benjamin, Karl Marx, Mahasweta Devi, Ranajit Guha, and Jacques Derrida.Professor C. D. Blanton
Friday, 9 am-12 pm, 301 WheelerOver recent decades, we have become accustomed to speaking of the ‘cultural logic’ of modernism, using a periodizing term to delineate a larger complex of historical effects, while also insinuating its availability to the integrated descriptions of critical reason. And understood broadly enough, modernism itself seems to comprise a series of variations on the problem of logic or critical reason, ranging from the analytic to the psychoanalytic, from dialectics to phenomenology. It is less clear, however, that one might speak with confidence of modernism’s metaphysics, its attempt to think first causes. Indeed in 1929, Martin Heidegger argued that the enterprise of metaphysics could only be authentically pursued by forswearing logic as such, trading the conceptual claims of Hegelian negation for a more primordial Nothing ultimately designed to banish Western metaphysics altogether.This course constitutes the first stirring of a counter-hypothesis, testing the proposition that Heidegger’s own modernist moment developed its own distinctive metaphysics, even when it failed or refused to provide a proper metaphysical language. Our reading will tangle in passing with the philosophical traditions already mentioned and more, as well as the discourses of literary criticism that the period spawned. We will attend to the period’s epistemological experiments and the rise (from several directions, both artistic and technical) of inductive modes of knowing. Centrally, however, we will concentrate on four major canonical figures, attempting to grasp the metaphysical consequences of the formal logics they develop as distinctive conceptual styles.Our largest work will begin with two poets, both of whom seem to press the limits of what a poem can know. For W. B. Yeats, the sequence of volumes following the first war (The Wild Swans at Coole, Michael Robartes and the Dancer, The Tower, The Winding Stair) seem to predicate their boldest visions on ignorance rather then insight, incognition rather than cognition. By comparison, T. S. Eliot’s early work, culminating in Ara Vos Prec and pointing to the more radical experimental break marked by “Gerontion” and The Waste Land, seems to trade vision for the more modest relevance of satire, even as the mode’s underlying referentiality seems to slide into mere inference. In each case, we are confronted with what a poet seems not to know, even as the poem essays a logic that operates behind his back.We will pursue the larger implication of that division in the work of two novelists. Wyndham Lewis’ Human Age trilogy takes the period between the wars as a logical and historical singularity, a moment when the future is experienced in advance, before it is known, when a second future war emerges as the cause of the first. For Samuel Beckett, Lewis’ unfashionable experiment in teleology is reinscribed as occasionalism, developed from the first trilogy (Molloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable) to the late Comment c’est (How It Is) as a categorical incommensurability between the physical and the metaphysical.Professor Natalia Brizuela
Thursday, 3-6 pm, 225 DwinelleThe last three decades have witnessed an explosion of critical concern on the question of time in a number of different disciplines: mainly literary theory, film studies, history, contemporary art, postcolonial theory, anthropology and queer theory. The debates around a certain “end of history,” the consolidation of ecological practices and discourses around the now undeniable environmental crises of the present, the complex temporalities of financial capitalism (speculation, debt, new forms of labor) and the experience of a massive acceleration of the time in the all encompassing neoliberal regime, have, in part, generated this critical concern.This seminar will explore some of these contemporary critical debates around time as we look closely at Latin American and Iberian art, films and literature from the second half of the twentieth century that take up time as a weapon for critique.Even though this recent emergence of a multidisciplinary critical body of work on time would seem to indicate that it is a problem of the present, the seminar will explore how the concern over time has been central for a number of philosophers of the 20th century: Freud’s unconscious; Gramsci’s hegemony; Benjamin’s dialectical image; Bataille’s accursed share; Adorno’s late style; Foucault’s heterotopias; Ranciere’s time after; Agamben’s time that remains; Didi-Huberman’s surivial and anachronism.Students will be encouraged to present and write on objects and texts related to their field of research, even if the objects and texts we will look at in the seminar are all from the Luso-Hispanic tradition.The seminar will be taught in English.Professor Wendy Brown
Tuesday, 2-4 pm, 749 BarrowsThis is a survey of 19th and early 20th Century political theory. Thinkers studied are Tocqueville, Marx, Mill, Nietzsche, and Weber.Professors Julia Bryan-Wilson and Anneka Lenssen
Wednesday, 2-5 pm, 308B Doe LibraryThe course will interrogate abstraction as a strategy in 20th and 21st-century art around the globe, and its manifold implications for political projects of being, seeing, and knowing together. We will look at how various artists turn to non-representation as a means for thinking differently about issues as divergent as flatness, vision, progress, decay, identity, violence, solidarity, negation, and protest. How might we read acts of judgment performed by abstract artists, i.e. separating what is alien from that which is intrinsic, as politically activated? How do we account for the ways abstraction has figured centrally not only in modernist art histories, but also in economic and political theories (as in the abstraction of use into exchange value)? How, too, have representation and figuration (as ostensible opposites of abstraction) been positioned as ethical tactics? We will take an object-oriented approach that foregrounds the complexity of movement between “thing” and abstract “effect.” The course pursues comparative readings as well, exploring the turn to abstraction in affinity with Islamic, Jewish, or mystical metaphysics that treat the representation of living beings with suspicion; divergent valences in postwar abstract painting; and contemporary abstraction as it supports coded meanings, eccentricities, and alternative (feminist, queer, marginal, racialized) formations.Professor Marcial Gonzales
Monday, 3-6 pm, 205 WheelerSince the global financial crisis of 2007-08 and the onset of the “Great Recession,” a small but growing number of literary scholars have strived to theorize the relation between capitalist crisis and literary studies. Two short articles in the January 2012 issue of PMLA—one each by Christopher Nealon and Joshua Clover, and each entitled “Value|Theory|Crisis”—are prime examples of this kind of innovative research. The purpose of this course will be to test some of the theoretical claims that have been made about the relation between capitalist crisis and literature.To do this, we’ll read works by Andrew Kliman, Chris Harman, and other Marxist scholars to scrutinize three theoretical claims in particular. One, the recurring economic crises of capitalism should not be understood as anomalies or temporary interruptions in productive continuity; they are rather symptoms of a system in which crisis is the norm, not the exception. Two, since the early 1970s, a period commonly associated with the dominance of neoliberalism, global capitalist production has experienced profound structural stagnation, and the attempts by capitalists to resolve stagnant production with financialization and debt have only prolonged the inevitable and unresolvable recurrence of economic (and hence political) crises. And three, all aspects of social life during the neoliberal period—including literature and cultural production generally—can be understood to one degree or another as formal and/or thematic expressions of capitalist crisis. Sociologist William I. Robinson refers to this third point as “the crisis of humanity.”Most of the works we’ll read draw on current research in the Marxist theory of value to formulate a critique of economic crisis. During the last few weeks of the semester, however, we’ll read three novels—John Rechy’s City of Night, Karen Tei Yamashita’s Tropic of Orange, and Salvador Plascencia’s The People of Paper—to bridge the divide between theory and literature. Our purpose will not be to study “literary representations” of economic crisis in these novels, but to trace the determinate relation between capitalism and literary form—that is, to explore the ways that capitalist crises have profoundly influenced the internal logic of the literature.Professor Robert Kaufman
Tuesday, 2-5 pm, 225 Dwinelle[For a fuller description of this course, go to the following Comparative Literature Department webpage: http://complit.berkeley.edu/?page_id=11036] Approximately the first half of this seminar will involve reading the work of the German-language poet Paul Celan (1920-1970), the figure—along with Theodor W. Adorno—most identified with the “Poetry After Auschwitz” debates. We’ll read Celan’s own poetry, criticism, and writings in poetics, as well as work by some of those he considered important precursors and contemporary colleagues. Reading primarily in English translation (and sometimes looking too at French and Spanish translations), we’ll read extensively in Celan’s poetry, poetics and criticism. We’ll always keep the original German texts before us, and we’ll regularly refer to them in relation to our translated versions, to understand Celan’s prosody in ways that will be comprehensible and helpful even for those who don’t read German. (Ability to read in German—and/or Spanish and French—will of course prove beneficial, but is by no means required for the seminar.) We’ll also undertake readings in some of the aesthetics, critical theory, and philosophy that informs Celan’s work, or that has been significant for its reception history. Among the central issues taken up will be the notoriously “difficult,” “hermetic,” “elliptical,” “obscure” character of Celan’s poetry. We’ll try to evaluate Celan’s claim that the difficulty stems largely from the poetry’s materials themselves, and that his perceived radical experimentalism was simply what was required to bring the materials into form and expression.Shifting hemispheres, we’ll turn to consider how poetry and poetics in the Americas, starting in the mid-1950s, attempt to understand what Celan is doing in poetry and what he is asking postwar poetry to attempt. Among our queries—which we’ll see various poets likewise raising—will be the degree to which Celan proves translatable (in the literal sense of the translation of his poems into English, French, Spanish; and in the metaphorical sense of attempted translations of his poetry’s poetics, aesthetics, ethics, and politics to contexts that will involve, among other things, the concerns and claims of the working class, anti-colonial, civil rights, feminist, and anti-war movements). We’ll observe this questioning perhaps above all in poets’ processes of thinking, in their poetry and criticism, about what is shared and what’s distinct in the historical experiences of European anti-semitism and New World slavery and racism: their thinking, in short, about what in Celan’s pathbreaking poetry in the wake of European fascism and genocide can, and cannot, help them as their artistic work develops its own relations to pressing ethical and sociopolitical matters. Suffusing these reflections will be the issue of what kinds of critical agency—if any—might be generated from Celanian poetics, and how such agency would relate to longstanding notions of art’s ethical and sociopolitical commitment or engagement.In addition to Celan’s work, the poetry we’ll read will range from brief excerpts to more substantial selections by a number of poets including, most likely: Hölderlin, Heine, Dickinson, Mallarmé, Rilke, Sachs, Brecht, Bachmann, Daive, Albiach, Du Bouchet, Césaire, Glissant, Monchoachi, Zurita, Gelman, Pizarnik, Perlongher, Paz, Castellanos, Blaser, Mouré, Brossard, Rothenberg, Duncan, Rich, Levertov, Palmer, Mackey, Rankine, and others. Critical, theoretical, and/or philosophical readings will likely include texts by Adorno, Benjamin, Marcuse, Heidegger, Derrida, Agamben, Lacoue-Labathe, Felstiner, Rothenberg, Bernstein, Carson, and Coetzee. Depending on time, we may also work with some filmic, musical, and visual art in which Celan figures.Professor Zeus Leonardo
Tuesday, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThis course explores the development of curriculum theory and the role of the curriculum specialist in the United States since the Progressive Period. Emphasizing a survey of classic texts and key figures, the course covers the development of three schools of thought: social efficiency approaches, child-centered approaches, and social reconstructionist approaches. It concludes with a study of curriculum theory since the Reconceptualists.Professor Zeus Leonardo
Monday, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThis course is designed to introduce students to a social and cultural critique of education and society. As a survey course, it examines the theoretical and practical nature of a critical theory of education. Additionally, the nature of power will be examined and the way that social groups position themselves in such relations. This understanding will be instructive for our ability to confront the contours of inequality and the everyday effects of “privilege.”Professor Judith Butler
Wednesday, 5-7 pm, 425 Doe LibraryThis course offers advanced study in interpretive approaches within the field of critical theory, focusing on the question of how critical theory enters into the framing of a long-term research project. We will consider the status and limits of theory, the relation between literary and social theory, reading practices, and archival research.Readings will draw on 20th-century aesthetics and social theory and will include texts by Sigmund Freud, Walter Benjamin, Theodor Adorno, Jean-Paul Sartre, Hannah Arendt, and Frantz Fanon.This course is intended for graduate students who are preparing a long-term research project, a prospectus, or dissertation.Admission by instructor permission only.________________
Students enrolled in CT 298 may petition to have this course count as one of their required courses for the DE, by special arrangement. Contact Rita Lindahl-Lynch (rlindahl-lynch.cir@berkeley.edu), Critical Theory Student Affairs Officer, for more information.The following courses satisfy Critical Theory Designated Emphasis core course requirements.Judith Butler
Tuesdays, 12-3 pm, Doe Library 308BThis course will consider the meanings of “critique” and critical thought in Kant, Hegel, and Marx, laying the groundwork for 20th century forms of critical theory.  Readings will be drawn from Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason and the Critique of Practical Reason, Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit, and Marx’s 1844 Manuscripts.  The course will require close readings of the assigned portions of these texts.  A class presentation will be required.Enrollment in Critical Theory 200 requires departmental approval. Priority will be given to Critical Theory Designated Emphasis students, especially those requiring the course to complete their DE requirements. To apply for admission to CT 200, email a 1-page application no later than November 20, 2016 to critical_theory@berkeley.edu, using the subject line “Application for CT 200 [Your Name].” In the 1-page application (Word document attachment), state your reasons for wanting to take the course, including any pertinent background experience or information. In the body of the email, include your name, year in the DE program (if relevant), and anticipated QE date. If applicable, please also attach your up-to-date “DE in Critical Theory Requirements Checklist.”Raúl Coronado
Thursdays, 2-5 pm, 80 BarrowsThe language of affect is everywhere around us. We talk about our feelings as things that are ours, that we own; we describe how works of art (music, film, literature, art, etc.) create a sense of wonder that make us feel closer to the sublime, a feeling of fullness, of transcendence; and we are often inspired and called to act in reaction to political events. Have emotions always been felt so keenly within the body, within the self or can they be contained in other types of structures? Do feelings have histories? And what work does affect do? We’ll begin with the assumption that feelings are both embodied emotions experienced by individuals and that they are historically situated constructs that emerge out of local conditions. This is to say that affect is both historical and political. Our seminar will take an interdisciplinary approach to affect studies by drawing on history, philosophy, literary criticism, and social science literature. We’ll want to pay close careful attention to the power of affect while situating it within the larger historical, epistemic framework that has allowed for affect to emerge in a variety of forms. Readings may include Foucault, Charles Taylor, Marx, Raymond Williams, Sara Ahmed, William Reddy, Amit Rai, Ann Stoler, Vivasvani Soni, Eli Zaretsky.This instance of Ethnic Studies 250 counts towards Critical Theory DE students’ Critical Theory 240 requirement.Colleen Lye
Mondays and Wednesdays, 9:30-11 am, B-40 Hearst Field AnnexWorld literature theories that have borrowed from the work of Immanuel Wallerstein on early capitalism to conceptualize the dynamics of literary centers and peripheries have difficulty accounting for the Asian Anglophone novel, an ascendant form of late capitalism. Since the early 1970s, the prominent manufacturing role played by Asian economies within the capitalist world system has led scholars to argue either that the center of global hegemony has now shifted East or that the reliance on a floating dollar as the world’s currency has ensnared Asia in a new kind of financialized, structural dependency. This same period sees the rise of the Asian Anglophone novel as a medium through which Asian writers have experimented with diverse fictional modes of representing problems of sovereignty, identity and alternative modernity in a globalized economy. We’ll immerse ourselves in world systems theory debates about the nature of the “long downturn” since the early 70s (Arrighi, Harvey, Brenner, Wallerstein, Radhika Desai, Richard Duncan, etc.), and bring these to bear on the various positions held by world literature and anti-world literature theorists (Casanova, Moretti, Schwartz, Spivak, Jameson, the Warwick Collective, Mufti, Orsini, Cheah, etc.). Further readings on the temporal implications of today’s credit economy, debates between proponents of immaterial labor versus those of Value Form Marxism, the reemergence of social reproduction feminism, theories of race and surplus populations, and the question of “anthropocene or capitalocene?” will be assigned as needed, depending on the interests of the group and the course’s eventual literary foci. The course’s literary component will consist of one work chosen from among 3-4 major novelists each (Amitav Ghosh, Han Ong, Kazuo Ishiguro, Ha Jin, Maxine Hong Kingston, Amit Chaudhuri, Chang Rae Lee, Xu Xi, Ninotchka Rosca are likely contenders for the final 3-4). Besides graduate students who may be specifically interested in the field of Asian Anglophone literature, this course would be useful to those interested in histories and theories of transnational capitalism since the 1970s and in historical materialist approaches to race, gender, empire and ecology. If you are a literature student who wants to get a grip on political economy and how to think about economic mediations of culture, this is a good course for you.This instance of English 203 counts towards Critical Theory DE students’ Critical Theory 240 requirement.The following courses satisfy Critical Theory Designated Emphasis elective requirements.Zeus Leonardo
Tuesdays, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThis course explores the development of curriculum theory and the role of the curriculum specialist in the United States since the Progressive Period. Emphasizing a survey of classic texts and key figures, the course covers the development of three schools of thought: social efficiency approaches, child-centered approaches, and social reconstructionist approaches. It concludes with a study of curriculum theory since the Reconceptualists.Zeus Leonardo
Mondays, 1-4 pm, 5527 TolmanThese interdisciplinary seminars address a series of questions. In what ways can philosophical, sociological, anthropological, historical, and psychological forms of inquiry be brought together to bear on the analysis of learning, on schooling, and on education more generally? What do we mean by critical and interpretive theories, and what are their relations with social practice? How can education come to constitute itself otherwise than in its current form?Abdul R. JanMohamed
Wednesdays, 3-6 pm, 104 DwinelleUsing psychoanalytic, phenomenological, and economic theorization of death and life, this course will examine instances of the political economy of life (and birthing) and death in African American literature. We will read the (Euro-American) exegetic theorization of life and death against the grain of the diegetic theorization of birthing, life, and death that is embedded in African American literary texts, in particular in some of the post-civil rights black feminist texts that focus on birthing and death.The relation between life and death can be seen as binary or as dialectical, or one can map it as a matrix of exchange, in which, like Marx’s articulation of use and exchange values, life and death function as mutually constitutive and, at the same time, mutually exclusive.  Slavery can be seen as being constituted around a “death contract” (mostly implicit, at times explicit): the vast bulk of the slave’s labor and erotic energies (i.e., his/her “life”) are “exchanged” for the postponement of his/her death, a postponement that is instantly and arbitrarily revocable.  The threat/fear of death functions as the exchange mechanism enabling the transformation of erotic energies into surplus value.I am particularly interested in the contradiction of the slave mother who is forced to birth a child into death-bound subjectivity, to give life to a socially dead subject. These tensions of the constitutive-exclusive relation between life and death are brilliantly articulated and theorized in novels such as Beloved.A list of the theoretical texts and a reader will be posted on bCourses.  Mary O’Brien’s The Politics of Reproduction is a required text; it is out of print but inexpensive copies are available online bookstores.Possible literary texts:  A Lesson Before Dying, Beloved, Bluest Eye, Corregidora, Kindred (and “Blood Child”), The Autobiography of an Ex-colored Man, The Lynchers, Third Life of Grange Copeland, Unconfessed.Charles F. Altieri
Thursdays, 3:30-6:30 pm, 115 BarrowsThis course is still a work in progress.  The basic idea is to develop the possibility that new developments in materialism offer tremendous possiblities for appreciating Impressionist art and Imagist writing.  But they also make it imperative to appreciate why the Modernist painters totally rejected Impressionism and why the Modernist poets soon utterly rejected Imagism.  I want to explore why these rejections also involved judgments on materialism and how those rejections might influence our own thinking — both about specific works of art and about how Modernist art might be even more important for our cultural situation than it was for the culture in which it was developed.  We will begin with some readings in vitalist materialisms as we work for at least two weeks on Impressionist art and Cézanne, as well as Merleau-Ponty on Cézanne.  Then we will spend three weeks on Modernist reactions, along with some readings in Hegel’s aesthetics and much reading in Art in Theory 1900-2000.  Participants will be asked to make fairly short presentations on single paintings from the epoch 1863-1930.  Then we will study how Modernist writing stages the dynamics of self-consciousness as a counter vitality to vitalist materialism.  We will begin with how Pound and Moore reject Imagism, how Eliot’s theological poems reject what he thought to be the limitations of Modernism, and how Stevens kept reframing what self-consciousness might involve, and how Ashbery reframes Stevens, in accord with how Jackson Pollock reinterprets surrealism.  We will read widely in these poets’ writings on poetics but try to focus our conversation in extended discussion of particular poems presented by the participants. If we have time we will also look at why some younger contemporaries utterly reject the role of image and epiphanic narrative in their work.There should be elaborate readings on bpace and exemplary paintings.  Papers can pursue any materials discussed in the course.Églantine Colon
Thursdays, 1:00-4:00pm, Dwinelle 4226In this “Modern Studies” seminar, we will trace the genealogy of a seemingly contemporary question—that of urban precarity—from the vantage point of its literary and cinematic figurations. To elaborate such genealogy of our precarious present, we will study films and read literary texts written between the 1850s and the 2000s that allow us to comprehend the major landmarks in a spatial history of precarity. To articulate the relations these works create between their aesthetic logics and the social instabilities to which they give form, we will place them in critical dialogue with analyses coming from a variety of other disciplines: urban theory and town planning (Le Corbusier, Lefebvre, Harvey, Wright), colonial and post-colonial studies (Fanon, Mbembe), sociology (Wacquant, Bourdieu), critical theory (Balibar, Rancière, Butler, Agamben) and theories of labor (Moullier-Boutang, Castel). Central to our materials and discussions will be the social and figurative tensions between Paris and “its” banlieues, from the 19th century to the present moment. We will notably study these tensions through the dis/continuities we can identify between the governmental production of French banlieues and the colonial city (especially Algiers) in the 19th century, which will lead us to interrogate the status of the contemporary peripheries vis-à-vis the history of colonialism. By articulating these spaces as “precarious” we will finally explore their most recent iterations and study the political potentials opened up in sites such as the “Zones à Défendre” and the refugee camps. Across the semester, we will conceptualize the notion of “precarious spaces” in its spatial, economic, temporal, (bio)political and ecological dimensions, while also taking it as a locus for the encounter between aesthetic practices and major events in the history of urban planning and social movements (from the Commune to the 2005 uprisings in the banlieues).This seminar will be taught in English. Readings will be in French.Michael Lucey
Wednesdays, 2-5 pm, 4125A DwinelleWe will read simultaneously, in somewhat experimental fashion, from three different currents of writing. First, we will read long sections from Proust’s A la recherche du temps perdu (dipping into all seven volumes at one point or another). We will be focusing on sections of the novel that have to do with the exchange of language. Second, we will read widely in and around what is called “Speech Act Theory,” a current within philosophy that has also been taken up in literary and cultural studies (readings will be drawn from some of the following authors: Austin, Grice, Searle, Quine, Putnam, Hornsby, Langton, Brandom, Butler, Sedgwick). Finally, we will pursue a set of readings related to the concept of language-in-use as developed in present-day linguistic anthropology. This will include some precursor texts in literary criticism, philosophy, and sociology (readings will be drawn from some of the following authors: Bakhtin, Bourdieu, Peirce, Goffman, Jakobson, Silverstein, Ochs, Agha). There is, we will find, a productive friction between the way language and language use are viewed in speech act theory and in linguistic anthropology, and we will be exploring how that friction can help us to see ways in which a novel like Proust’s explores what language is, and what it does when we use it. This may lead us to some speculations about what kind of an analytic instrument a novel itself can prove to be when it comes to understanding language-in-use.  It is desirable that participants be able to read Proust in the original French, but others with an interest in the topic may enroll in the seminar as space allows.Karen S. Feldman
Wednesdays, 1-4 pm, 282 DwinelleThis graduate seminar will investigate German philosophy of history. We will focus on Historicism, its precursors, and its legacy for hermeneutics and literary theory. Readings include excerpts from Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche, Ranke, Koselleck and others. Important secondaries include Paul Ricoeur, Hayden White, Timothy Bahti, Frederick Beiser and others.
Ivonne del Valle
Tuesdays, 3-6 pm, 104 DwinelleAccording to Max Weber the spirit of Protestantism made possible the emergence of capitalism proper. In his recounting, Spain’s imperial/colonial experience could be bracketed as a previous and/or different moment, what Marx termed primitive accumulation. Without negating that the 16th and 17th centuries in the Americas (one of the central vantage points of the course) could be rightfully considered in such a way, we will study how religion and economy intermingled, clashed, and related to each other in an enterprise in which they were the central, directing forces (evangelization/exploitation of people and resources). Focusing on Spain’s Catholic version of the economy we will investigate violence and its justification, religious metaphors and ideology, as well as the processes of rationalization and discipline, ordering that accompanied the expansion of Christianity, in order to understand the particular forms the economy took under early modern/colonial Catholicism and the cultural, social forms that accompanied it.
Natalia Brizuela
Thursdays, 3-6 pm, 54 BarrowsThis seminar will work its way through the critical concept of mimesis in 20th Century theory, and 20th and 21st Century aesthetic practices (literature, photography, film, art) and political life. The work of Aristotle, Walter Benjamin, Theodor Adorno, Roger Caillois, Jacques Derrida, Michael Taussig and Kaja Silverman will construct the blueprint for our journey, as we make sense of this elusive concept. Miming, imitation, mimicry, reproduction, resemblance, similarities, the irreducible material element of nature itself, becoming-other, analogies: all of these, and many others, are ways in which the aesthetic and the political realms of human life have understood mimesis. As opposed to Plato, who saw in the world of mimetic imitation a threat, for Aristotle man is the most imitative of all creatures, so that mimesis and mediation are mankind’s fundamental ways of getting closer to the real by learning from and about nature. For Benjamin humans have a particular gift for the mimetic, and the mimetic faculty is above all a human product that is historically changing. For Adorno, mimicry — and therefore mimesis — was a necessary strategy for guaranteeing life. For both Benjamin and Adorno, in the post-Enlightenment world, with the epistemic rupture of a certain sensuous relationship between man and the world, crystallized first around the emergence of science (and later technologies of reproduction), mimesis as a form of truth entered into crisis. It is the height of this crisis — the 20th and 21st centuries — that we will investigate in this seminar. We will draw on cases and examples from the Luso-Hispanic world, but all seminar participants can and should use the seminar to work through their own corpus of materials from other geographical and disciplinary areas.  Seminar conducted in English. In March of 2015, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation announced a grant to University of California, Berkeley in conjunction with Northwestern University to fund an exploratory effort to establish programs and directions for the newly constituted International Consortium for Critical Theory Programs (ICCTP). The task of the grant will be to establish the groundwork for the consortium and its projects. The principal investigators are Judith Butler (Berkeley) and Penelope Deutscher (Northwestern). The task of this international consortium will be not only to preserve and promote the tradition of critical theory in a broad sense, but also to investigate innovations and revisions of that tradition in light of the global range of critical theories as well as the contemporary global challenges to the university and, by implication, to critical thought itself. Plans are already underway to document and connect programs and centers dedicated to the field of critical theory that have had no previous institutional forum for such an exchange. The European origins of critical theory have been crucial to its articulation and significant influence, but there are now diverse appropriations and revisions of that tradition that speak to the contemporary historical and economic conditions traversing Europe and other parts of the globe.
The first project of this consortium will be to establish a multi-lingual website that will provide information on critical theory programs at the undergraduate and graduate level; critical theory research clusters, centers, and institutes; and link with an online critical theory library that offers bibliographical background on the field and its current directions. The second project—under the direction of Northwestern University—will involve options for program development in critical theory that could be used to establish academic and research programs adaptable to different institutional environments. With the website and the program development initiatives, we hope to establish the importance of the field through various means, and thus to bolster initiatives to build and hire in this area throughout higher education. Ideally, the consortium will provide rationales and precedents for supporting critical theory initiatives in the contemporary university, including research collaborations and faculty and student exchange programs. Such a network is especially important in light of new measures that have gauged the value of the humanities and critical thought in instrumental terms alone. The ICCTP seeks both to preserve and galvanize the study of critical theory, and to establish its crucial place in the life of the university.For additional information, please contact The Program in Critical Theory at critical_theory@berkeley.edu.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.Writing a dissertation chapter, a conference paper, or a seminar presentation is an immensely important but often daunting and lonely aspect of graduate student life. To create a quiet, focused time to get some work done, share ideas, and have more time together, we are forming a twice-monthly writing group with the support of The Program in Critical Theory.Our group is meant to create a productive opportunity for DE students to write together and support each other by discussing aspects and challenges of the writing experience and providing thoughtful critiques on our work. We welcome all dissertation topics and want this to be an opportunity to share ideas using critical theory as a common language. In general, these meetings are casual and participants are welcome to drop in as their schedules permit.The first session is on Friday, September 6th, from 12 to 2 pm in the BCNM Commons (340 Moffitt, next to FSM café). Bring your laptop, your writing, your schedule, and your ideas! RSVP to critical_theory@berkeley.edu.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.The Program in Critical Theory is pleased to announce that UC Berkeley graduate student Chiara Ricciardone has been selected to receive the 2015-2016 Critical Theory Dissertation Fellowship. The annual fellowship is awarded to a Critical Theory Designated Emphasis (DE) graduate student with a record of achievement and a promising dissertation project. The Fellowship’s funding is generously provided by the Magistretti Graduate Fellowship Fund, through the UC Berkeley College of Letters and Sciences, Division of Arts and Humanities.Ricciardone is working towards her Ph.D. in Rhetoric with a Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory. Her dissertation, Disease and Difference in Three Platonic Dialogues, considers the philosophical significance and rhetorical function of disease in Plato’s Gorgias, Phaedo, and Timaeus. Other scholars have focused on Plato’s philosophical therapy, dismissing disease as a metaphor for disorder. In contrast, Ricciardone claims disease and lack of health in Plato are symptomatic of the philosophical problem of difference. To make this argument, she analyzes Plato’s rhetorical strategies for manifesting differences as pathological pains, showing that these experiences are generative of the philosophical subject. Ricciardone’s investigations explicitly challenge a bias, shared by Platonists as well as post-Structuralists like Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida, that Plato emphasized the identity of forms to the exclusion of the varieties of difference. Drawing on critical theory to overturn such limiting interpretations, she argues instead that Plato both cultivates and cures sensitivity to disease and difference in his texts.

The 2014-2015 Fellowship recipient was Joshua Williams (Performance Studies), for his dissertation on the politics of race and animality in Kenyan and Tanzanian performance art from the 1930s through the 1990s; the 2013-2014 recipient was Ramsey McGlazer (Comparative Literature), for his dissertation on counter-progressive pedagogy in modernist literature and cinema; the 2012-2013 recipient was Mareike Winchell (Anthropology), for her dissertation on the legal and affective legacies of land reform in post-revolutionary Bolivia.Photo credit: Trav Williams, Broken Banjo Photography.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.Critical Theory is pleased to announce the selection of UC Berkeley graduate student Joshua Williams for the 2014-2015 Dissertation Fellowship. Williams is working towards his Ph.D. in Performance Studies with a Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory. His dissertation, “Don’t Tell the Hyena How Well You Can Bite: Performance, Race, and Animality in East Africa,” considers the politics of race and animality in Kenyan and Tanzanian performance art from the 1930s through the 1990s. It pays special attention to discourses of domesticity and “wildness” as they impinge on social, political, and epistemological transitions from colonialism to its various aftermaths. With the support of The Program in Critical Theory, he will build on the fieldwork he has already conducted in East Africa with intensive archival research in a number of North American and British libraries.The Critical Theory Dissertation Fellowship is awarded to a single Critical Theory DE graduate student with a record of achievement and promising dissertation project. The 2014-2015 fellowship in the amount of $36,000 supports a stipend, fees, and summer funds. It is generously provided by The Sidney and Margaret Ancker Graduate Fellowship in the Humanities through the UC Berkeley College of Letters and Sciences, Division of Arts and Humanities.The annual fellowship is open to Critical Theory students in UC Berkeley Departments including Anthropology, Boalt Law School, Comparative Literature, East Asian Languages and Cultures, English, Ethnic Studies, Film and Media, French, Gender and Women’s Studies, German, Geography, History, History of Art, Italian, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Rhetoric, School of Education, School of Public Health, Sociology, South and Southeast Asian Studies, Spanish, and Theater, Dance and Performance Studies.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.The Program in Critical Theory welcomes eighteen new graduate students to the Designated Emphasis (DE) in Critical Theory. The incoming cohort includes students from ten different departments across campus, whose work in critical theory will add to the depth and range of the Program’s interdisciplinary approaches and conversations. We’re delighted that these individuals are joining our community of nearly 100 students and 60 faculty; we look forward to their participation in and contributions to the Program’s coursework and activities.2016 Critical Theory Designated-Emphasis Students Joining the Program:
Andrew Barbour (English); Wendi Bootes (Comparative Literature); Jianqing Chen (Film & Media); Cheng Chai Chiang (English); Frederic Dulson (French); Aaron Eldridge (Anthropology); Ellen Feiss (History of Art); LiHe Han (Comparative Literature); Thiti Jamkajornkeiat (South & Southeast Asian Studies); Patrick Lyons (French); Jacob Raterman (French); Ricardo Rivera (Anthropology); Betty Rosen (Near Eastern Studies); Jessica Ruffin (German); Omi Salas-SantaCruz (Education); Kumars Salehi (German); Thomas Sliwowski (Comparative Literature); Saniya Taher (Comparative Literature)The DE in Critical Theory promotes the interdisciplinary study of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century notions of critique; of the Frankfurt School and other twentieth-century currents of critical theory and philosophy; and of contemporary forms and modes of critical theory. It enables graduate students already enrolled in UC Berkeley Ph.D. programs from across the social sciences, arts, and humanities to obtain certification of a Designated-Emphasis specialization in Critical Theory. Students admitted to the DE who complete its requirements will receive a parenthetical notation to that effect on their doctoral degrees. The Critical Theory Program offers graduate fellowships, hosts international scholars, and presents lectures, seminars, and other events for the wider campus community and local public. It also maintains important collaborative relations with other critical theory institutes and programs nationally and internationally.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.Each semester, The Program in Critical Theory offers a selection of courses from departments across the humanities and social sciences for Designated Emphasis students. The Program’s three core-course requirements are intended to establish an historical and normative framework for understanding critical theory in its current breadth. The Program also requires DE students to take two electives taught by Critical Theory faculty (or two courses that approach their materials from critical-theoretical perspectives in ways that would satisfy DE elective-course requirements). This Fall, courses will cover a wide array of subject matter, from the idea of “reason” in nineteenth century social theory, to contemporary critical pedagogy, to the emergence of avant-garde film and photography.Enrollment is intended for UC Berkeley Ph.D. students in the Critical Theory DE program. Visit Critical Theory’s course page for course descriptions and schedules.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.The Program in Critical Theory welcomes fifteen new graduate students to the Designated Emphasis (DE) in Critical Theory. The incoming cohort represents diverse research and disciplinary backgrounds that add substantially to our community of over ninety Critical Theory DE students and fifty-five faculty. The Program congratulates our incoming students on their acceptance to the DE; we look forward to their participation in and contributions to the Program’s coursework and activities.2015-2016 Critical Theory Designated Emphasis Students:Phillip Campanile (Geography); Aurelia Cojocaru (Comparative Literature); David Delano (History); Alfonso Fierro (Spanish and Portuguese); Michael Harvey (Public Health); Donna Honarpisheh (Near Eastern Studies); Basit Iqbal (Anthropology); Andrew Key (English); Daryl Maude (East Asian Languages and Culture); Pedro Rolón (Comparative Literature); Gil Rothschild (Jurisprudence and Social Policy); Elisa Russian (Italian Studies); Maria-Fátima Santos (Sociology); Desmond Sheehan (Music); Camila YaDeau (Rhetoric)
The DE in Critical Theory promotes the interdisciplinary study of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century notions of critique; of the Frankfurt School and other twentieth-century currents of critical theory and philosophy;, and of contemporary forms and modes of critical theory. It enables graduate students already enrolled in UC Berkeley Ph.D. programs from across the social sciences, arts, and humanities to obtain certification of a Designated-Emphasis specialization in Critical Theory. Students admitted to the DE who complete its requirements will receive a parenthetical notation to that effect on their doctoral degrees. The Critical Theory Program offers graduate fellowships, hosts international scholars, and presents lectures, seminars, and other events for the wider campus community and local public. It also maintains important collaborative relations with other critical theory institutes and programs nationally and internationally.It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.The Program in Critical Theory welcomes sixteen new graduate students to the Designated Emphasis (DE) in Critical Theory. The incoming cohort represents diverse research and disciplinary backgrounds that add substantially to the community of nearly 100 Critical Theory DE students. The Program in Critical Theory congratulates these students on their acceptance to the DE and looks forward to their contributions in coursework, working groups, and events.2014-2015 Critical Theory Designated Emphasis Students:Youssef Belal (Anthropology); Tyler Blakeney (French); Lilith de Bellesiles (Rhetoric); Paul de Morais (Comparative Literature); Evyn Espiritu (Rhetoric); Matthew Gonzales (Comparative Literature); Azucena Hernandez-Ramirez (Spanish and Portuguese); Megan Hoetger (Theater, Dance and Performance Studies); Elizabeth Vargas Holguin (Spanish and Portuguese); Taylor Johnston (Comparative Literature); Anooj Kansara (Rhetoric) Gabriel Regalado (African Diaspora Studies); Ryan Rhadigan (Rhetoric); Christopher Scott (Comparative Literature); Simone Stirner (Comparative Literature); Heriberto Martinez-Yepez (Spanish and Portuguese)The DE in Critical Theory promotes the interdisciplinary study of foundational, eighteenth- and nineteenth-century notions of critique, the Frankfurt School and other twentieth-century currents of critical theory and philosophy, and contemporary forms and modes of critical theory. It enables graduate students already enrolled in UC Berkeley Ph.D. programs from across the social sciences, arts, and humanities to obtain certification of a Designated-Emphasis specialization in Critical Theory. Students admitted to the DE who complete its requirements will receive a parenthetical notation to that effect on their doctoral degrees. The Critical Theory Program offers graduate fellowships, hosts international scholars, and presents lectures, seminars, and other events for the wider campus community and local public. It also maintains important collaborative relations with other critical theory institutes and programs nationally and internationally.
 It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.In the coming semester, The Program in Critical Theory is offering over a dozen courses from a broad range of fields throughout the humanities and social sciences, including film, sociology, French, political science, and history of art, among many others. New this spring is Critical Theory 298, “Interpretive Approaches in Critical Theory,” a course intended for advanced students who are preparing a long-term research project, prospectus, or dissertation.Enrollment in Critical Theory courses is intended for UC Berkeley Ph.D. students in the Critical Theory DE. Visit Critical Theory’s course page for descriptions and schedules.In the series following-up from last Fall’s Forms of Survival and the Politics of Vulnerability, Politics Beyond the Human continues to address notions of survival and how survival can act as a license to force and at other times a basis for resistance. Politics Beyond the Human expands the scope of inquiry to include discussions of the nonhuman world. Heightened attention to the nonhuman may be necessary for understanding how, not only resources, but exposure to risk are unevenly distributed and managed under late capitalism. Sessions are oriented around four sites of exploration: ecology, infrastructure, animal capital, and forms of embodiment.Politics Beyond the Human is intended to be a hybrid between a reading group, a safe space for research in progress, and a philosophically inclined support group for those trying to understand capitalism now. Although the workshop is a gathering place for people with different disciplinary and intellectual commitments, those who have a particular interest in critical theory might think of it as an attempt to forge a connection between an established, more familiar tradition of critique and an emerging body of contemporary social research.Politics Beyond the Human is free and open to the public. Workshop sessions feature discussion of readings and presentations by guest speakers and UC Berkeley faculty and graduate students. Readings are available one week prior to each meeting. Politics Beyond the Human is developed and led by Michelle Ty (Ph.D. candidate, English, Designated Emphasis Critical Theory) and presented by the Program in Critical Theory.Seating is limited. Please contact critical_theory@berkeley.edu to register by Friday, February 14.Politics Beyond the Human
SchedulePolitical Ecologies
Tuesday, February 18, 5-7 pm
330 Wheeler Hall, UC BerkeleyToxicity, Animacy, and the Problem of Matter
Samia Rahimtoola, Graduate Student, Department of English, UC Berkeley
Thursday, March 6, 5-7 pm
340 Moffitt Library, UC BerkeleyTransit, Injury, and Infrastructure
Amanda Armstrong, Graduate Student, Department of Rhetoric, UC Berkeley
Paul Nadal, Graduate Student, Department of Rhetoric, UC Berkeley
Thursday, March 13, 5-7 pm
340 Moffitt Library, UC BerkeleyHow to Think the Knowing Subject Anew? The Concept of the Distributed Centered Subject: Its Philosophical and Practical Implications
Hélène Mialet, Visiting Scholar, The Program in Critical Theory, UC Berkeley
Wednesday, April 2, 5-7 pm
340 Moffitt Library, UC BerkeleyHow We Forgot the Sea
Ashley Dawson, Professor of English, CUNY
Thursday, April 10, 5-7 pm
340 Moffitt Library, UC BerkeleyClimate Change and the Cumulus of History: Spare Thoughts on Accumulation and Redundancy 
Anne-Lise François, Professor of English and Comparative Literature, UC Berkeley
Wednesday, April 23, 5:30-7:30 pm
Location TBD, UC BerkeleyIt seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.The faculty, students, and staff of UC Berkeley’s Program in Critical Theory welcome twelve new graduate students from nine campus departments to the Designated Emphasis in Critical Theory in Fall 2013.Tova Ackerman, Rhetoric; Daniel Benjamin, English; Molly Borowitz, Spanish and Portuguese; Nicholaus Gutierrez, Rhetoric; Tasha Hauf, Ethnic Studies; Tara Hottman, German; Ellen Lin, Education; Stephen McIsaac, Anthropology; Simon Rogghe, French; Aakash Suchak, Rhetoric; Katherine Wallerstein, Rhetoric; Piper Wheeler, Slavic Languages.The DE consists of a multi-course track that culminates in a degree certificate in Critical Theory in addition to their PhD. The aims of this curriculum are to establish an historical and normative framework for understanding critical theory in its current breadth. The DE now serves over 70 graduate students from the humanities and the social sciences at UC Berkeley. It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.The Program in Critical Theory is pleased to announce the selection of Ramsey McGlazer for the 2014 Critical Theory Dissertation Fellowship. Ramsey is pursuing his PhD in Comparative Literature along with a Designated Emphasis (DE) in Critical Theory. McGlazer’s dissertation on “counter-progressive pedagogy” is briefly described:Ramsey McGlazer’s dissertation, tentatively titled In the Place of Abandonment: The Poetics of Counter-Progressive Pedagogy, identifies a literary and cinematic history that represents an alternative, within the modernist period, to the more commonly held Liberal and Left view of the modern as a forward movement of history defined as progress.  Considering works by Pascoli, Pater, Joyce, Pasolini, and Rocha, the dissertation locates a modernist counter-tradition whose didacticism allows or even compels us to rethink progressive education as something other than an unqualified good.In and beyond the Italian context that the dissertation takes as its point of departure, progressive educational reformers dismissed older and more traditional methods of instruction as backward, mechanical, empty, unproductive, and, most emphatically, “dead.”  In contrast, the figures at the center of McGlazer’s inquiry tried, without denying their deadness, to set these very methods to work, so that precisely what looked like instruction’s retrograde traditionalism might produce other possibilities for thought.  Thus, written in Latin; learned by heart; making the pensum, or the punitive copying-out of text, into a literary form; or otherwise corporally punishing: the works that McGlazer examines all turn to instruction in order to counter standard, modern-progressive understandings of history, and to contest key aspects of the politics that these understandings entail. These works also profoundly complicate the notions of biological and cultural reproduction on which the relevant theories of progress and progressive education rely.   Giving up on the liberal and ostensibly liberating, as well as the life-giving, promises of progress, the poetics of what McGlazer calls “counter-progressive pedagogy” instead inherits and imparts the bad education also known as instruction, but it does so, McGlazer argues, to enabling and even radically democratic effect.The Critical Theory Dissertation Fellowship is awarded to a single Critical Theory DE graduate student with a record of achievement and promising dissertation projects. The 2014 fellowship in the amount of $36,000 supports a stipend, fees, and summer funds. It is generous provided by The Sidney and Margaret Ancker Graduate Fellowship in the Humanities through the UC Berkeley College of Letters and Sciences, Division of Arts and Humanities.  The annual fellowship is open to Critical Theory students in UC Berkeley Departments including Anthropology, Boalt Law School, Comparative Literature, East Asian Languages and Cultures, English, Ethnic Studies, Film and Media, French, Gender and Women’s Studies, German, Geography, History, History of Art, Italian, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Rhetoric, School of Education, School of Public Health, Sociology, Spanish, and Theater, Dance and Performance Studies. It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. If you are looking for a specific post, try searching up in the right-hand corner. Otherwise take a look at our most recent posts below.In December 2016, UC Berkeley received a three-and-a-half year, $1.5 million grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to establish the International Consortium of Critical Theory Programs (ICCTP). The task of this international consortium is to document, connect, and support the new and varied forms that critical theory has assumed in light of contemporary global challenges, including challenges to the university as an institution charged with the task of safeguarding and promoting critical thought. The Consortium is co-directed by Professor Judith Butler (UC Berkeley) and Professor Penelope Deutscher (Northwestern University).Located in the Program in Critical Theory at UC Berkeley, the Consortium maintains a multi-lingual website that provides information on critical theory programs and initiatives throughout the world, seeking to connect programs and projects that have for too long remained unknown to one another. The Consortium will also publish a book series, Critical South, with Polity Press and an online journal called Critical Times, and will convene biannual conferences focused on contemporary critical issues of global concern such as violence, memory, democracy, and the critical tasks of the university. As well, the Consortium will expand the Critical Theory Archive at the UC Irvine to more fully represent the global scope of the field. The Consortium also invites international scholars to engage with faculty and students on the UC Berkeley campus. Under the direction of Northwestern University, a curricular initiative of the Consortium, Critical Theory in the Global South, will develop new teaching curricula reflective of critical theory’s global reach in conjunction with an associated program of international graduate student exchange.With all of these initiatives, the Consortium seeks to establish the new global contours of Critical Theory today, supporting critical thought both inside and outside the university, and seeking collaborative ways to become more responsive to pressing global challenges. The Consortium seeks both to preserve and to galvanize the study of critical theory in its myriad global forms, underscoring the crucial place of critical thought in the university and in its various public lives. The Consortium aims to incite new forms of collaborative research among a wide range of regions and languages, connecting the disconnected and foregrounding the periphery in an effort to respond critically to contemporary challenges to critical thinking, including neoliberal metrics and forms of normalization that suppress or devalue the critical and transformative potential of thought itself.For more information, please contact  info.ictconsortium@berkeley.edu.