The following is a list of courses relating to the Concurrent Degree in Medieval Studies.  Please see the online schedule of classes for updated information. Middle Welsh Texts
& ManuscriptsCourse/Section: Celtic
Studies 146BTime: TTh
11A-12:30Location: 151
BarrowsInstructor: Annalee
RejhonDescription: A selection of
medieval Welsh prose and poetry will be read with a focus on King Arthur and on
Middle Welsh translations of Anglo-Norman French works.  These works will be examined in the context
of the medieval Welsh manuscripts that preserve them.  The course will provide an introduction to
the nature and history of the corpus of extant medieval Welsh manuscripts and
to methods for editing them as well as an examination of the cultural interface
between Welsh and French traditions in medieval Britain.  In this regard selections will be read from Ystoria Bown de Hamtwn [The Tale of
Boun de Hamtone] and from Cân Rolant,
the Welsh version of the Song of Roland.  The Arthurian texts will include selections
from Culhwch and Olwen, the earliest
Arthurian tale in the vernacular, Brut y
Brenhinedd [History of the Kings], the Welsh version of Geoffrey of
Monmouth’s History of the Kings of
Britain, the native Arthurian tale, Breudwyt
Ronabwy [the Dream of Rhonabwy], the Welsh grail text Peredur, the counterpart of Chrétien de Troyes’ Old French Perceval, and the early Arthurian poems,
“Pa gur” [What Man (the Gatekeeper)], and “Preiddeu Annwn” [Spoils of the
Otherworld]. The latest critical treatments of these works in their cultural
context will be covered in lectures. 
Texts will be read in Middle Welsh, both in edited and manuscript
versions, the latter made available in a Reader from microfilm or online
copies.  In-class translations will
normally form part of each class.Course requirements include a
midterm and final exam plus the preparation of a short transcription and
edition of part of a manuscript of one of the texts read in class.Prerequisites:  CS146A or permission of the instructor. Celtic ChristianityCourse/Section: Celtic
Studies 173Time: TTh 2-3:30Location: 215
DwinelleInstructor: Annalee
RejhonDescription:  The course will examine the early reception
and development of Christianity in Ireland and Britain. Particular attention
will be paid to the role that insular pre-Christian Celtic religious systems
played in this reception and the conversion to Christian belief.  Lectures and primary works that will be read
(complete or in extract) to elucidate this issue will be drawn from wisdom
texts, secular and canon law texts, ecclesiastical legislation, penitentials
and monastic rules, apocrypha, and lyric poetry.  A selection of saints' lives, both Irish and
Welsh, with a French connection via St. Martin of Tours, will round out the
course.All
texts will be available in English translation and the majority of them
available in a Course Reader.  These will
include:  the Irish wisdom text, Audacht Morainn [The Testimony of
Moran]; Cáin Adamnáin [the law
of Adomnan], Cáin Domnaig [the law of Sunday] and Cáin Darí [the law of Dari]; The Irish Penitentials, the
"Monastery of Tallaght"; the "Martyrology of Oengus" and
the Old Irish poems of Blathmac; The
Voyage of St. Brendan; and extracts from the following saints' lives:  Adomnan's Life
of Columba, Muirchú's Life of St.
Patrick, Cogitosus's Life of St.
Brigid, Rhigyfarch's Life of St.
David, Lifris's Life of St. Cadog,
and Sulpicius's Life of St. Martin.Course requirements include a
midterm and final examination.No prerequisites, although a
basic knowledge of Christianity is required. Medieval Latin LiteratureCourse/Instructor: Latin 140Location: TTh 11A-12:30Location: 121 WheelerInstructor: Frank BeznerDescription: This course is meant as an introduction into the Latin literature of the Middle Ages. After a brief introductory discussion of the problem of medieval Latin as a (literary and non-literary) language, we will translate and discuss readings from the 5th to the 13th century - readings that were selected to illustrate important and interesting authors, genres, contexts, and features of medieval Latin Latin literature and literary culture. Texts to be studied include the Peregrinatio Egeriae, a late Ancient travel account to the holy land; Carolingian political poetry written at Charlemagne’s court; religious poetry by Notker of St. Gall; allegorical poetry of the 12th century; hagiographic and monastic literature; satirical and love poems (Carmina Burana). As the course hopes to be responsive to students’ interests, this list may be adapted to suggestions from students. Overall, we will focus on translation and analysis, but never without discussing institutional contexts and problems of interpretation. Two classes will be held at the Bancroft library where we will be able to work with original medieval manuscripts. Sound knowledge of the basics of Latin grammar and at least some experience with reading (classical or medieval) texts in the original (ideally through courses such as Latin 100, 101 etc.) are prerequisites. Please email instructor when in doubt. — All texts will be handed out (via a reader or bcourses). Course/Section: Classics 239Time: W 2-5Location: TBAInstructor: Philip HardieDescription: The fantasy or dream of ascending to the heavens is found in a wide variety of contexts in ancient society and literature: mythological catasterism (metamorphosis into a star or constellation), the apotheosis of the ruler, the philosopher's flight of the mind, the posthumous ascent of the soul released from the prison of the body, the skywards elevation of fame, the soaring flight of the poet. Some journeys to the heavens succeed, some do not, whether as just punishment or as noble failures (Giants, Icarus, Phaethon). This course will explore the religious, intellectual, aesthetic, and ideological meanings of these ancient precursors of space travel in a range of ancient authors, including Plato, Cicero, Virgil, Ovid, and Boethius. We will then follow the story into the post-classical world, in which the ancient models compete and interact with the ascensions of the Bible and of Christian eschatology: authors to be examined include Dante, Chaucer, Ariosto, and Milton. The later stages of the story converge with a growing obsession with the sublime. We will also look at the visual arts: a look upwards to the ceilings of Renaissance, baroque and rococo churches and palaces reveals a host of ascents and apotheoses, both religious and secular. Medieval
LiteratureCourse/Section: Comparative Literature 152Time: MWF 4-5:30Location: 175 DwinelleInstructor: Annalee RejhonDescription: The course will
present a survey of major works of medieval literature from some of the
principal literary traditions of the Middle Ages, with an emphasis on epic and
on Arthurian romance.  The epics that
will be examined are the assonanced Oxford version of the Song of Roland (with an extract from the rhymed Châteauroux/Venice
7 version) and Beowulf, as well as
the Old Irish saga of the Táin; the romances are those of Chrétien
de Troyes, along with Gottfied von Strassburg’s Tristan, Ulrich von Zatzikhoven’s Lanzelet, and the Middle English Sir Gawain and the Green Knight. Included in the survey will be the
Arthurian section of Geoffrey of Monmouth’s History
of the Kings of Britain, and several of the native tales and romances of
the Middle Welsh Mabinogion.  A selection of troubadour lyrics will round
out the survey.All texts will be available in
English translation.  Course requirements
will include a midterm and a final examination. The
Cultural Dynamics of Medieval ManuscriptsCourse/Section: Comparative Literature 212 / Art
History 192 D1Time: Th 2-5Location: 308B Doe LibraryInstructor: Frank Bezner / Beate FrickeIn this course we will study medieval and early-modern manuscripts
as complex intersections of materiality, aesthetics, politics, and
institutionality. In a first part, students will be introduced into the
fundamentals of codicology, paleography, and manuscript illumination: a
hands-on phase for which we will use real manuscripts from Berkeley’s Bancroft
Library. In addition, we will discuss some seminal critical work on the
cultural dynamics of manuscripts. After this introductory part, our class will
explore selected cases and genres such as medieval bibles, books of hours,
poetic anthologies, and manuscripts with scientific texts. In the third part of
the course, students will pursue their own research in collaboration with the
instructors. Literature in English
through MiltonCourse/Section: English
45Time: MWF 1-2Location: 213
WheelerInstructor: David
MarnoDescription: This course explores a story of
discovering, then forgetting, then discovering again the fact that a particular
language can be used not only for communication but also for creation. At the
beginning of our story Caedmon, a shepherd, is called upon in his dream to
praise God in poetry. A thousand years later, John Milton calls upon the
“Heav’nly Muse” to sing “Of Man’s First Disobedience.” In between them, English
turns from its humble beginnings into a medium of literature. In this course,
we trace this transformation by reading works of Chaucer, Spenser, Shakespeare,
Donne, and Milton. Epic: Legends
of TroyCourse/Section: English 180ETime:TTh 2-3:30Location:159 MulfordInstructor: Maura NolanDescription: Homer’s Iliad was composed in the
eighth century BCE. Both the story that it narrated (the conflict between the
Greeks and the Trojans) and the particular form that the story took (the genre
of the epic) would become foundational building blocks of the Western literary
tradition. This course will follow these two threads from antiquity to the
Renaissance. We will read the story of Troy and the Trojans as it was told and
retold by the Greeks (Homer’s Iliad and Odyssey), the Romans
(Virgil’s Aeneid), in the Middle Ages (Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde),
and in Elizabethan England (Shakespeare’s Troilus and Cressida). At the
same time, we will see what happens to the genre of epic over time, as
historical circumstances change and cultural priorities shift. We will define
what we mean by “epic,” as well as what Homer, Virgil, Chaucer, and Shakespeare
meant when they invoked the genre. Each of these texts imagines a world of
possibilities and limitations; we will compare those freedoms and unfreedoms,
what is speakable and unspeakable in Homer’s world versus Virgil’s world versus
Chaucer’s world versus Shakespeare’s world. And will ask ourselves how the epic
as a genre contributes to shaping the limitations and possibilities imagined by
these texts.Book List: Chaucer: Troilus and Criseyde;
Homer: Iliad; Homer: Odyssey; Shakespeare: Troilus and
Cressida; Virgil: Aeneid Late Old EnglishCourse/Section: English 205BTime: TTh 2-3:30Location: 115 BarrowsInstructor: Emily ThornburyDescription:
In this course, we will explore the curious phenomenon of Old English after the
Norman Conquest. Although English’s status as a language of power was
overturned in 1066, the vernacular lived on in many guises—most remarkably as
recognizably Old English works copied by speakers of early Middle English. We
will focus on texts in several important post-Conquest manuscripts, including
saints’ lives from Cambridge, Corpus Christi College 303, and works of
religious philosophy (including the Old English Soliloquies) from
London, British Library, Cotton Vitellius A.xv(2). We will examine networks of
transmission through the lens of a homily by Ælfric, and we will also consider
the changes to the English language and the poetic metre through texts
including Durham, The Grave, and the metrical prayer in Cotton
Julius A.ii. At the end of the course, students will present their research in
a conference-length paper.Most
material will be available via the bCourses site; however, we will also be
reading Elaine Treharne’s recent Living Through Conquest; Clayton and
Magennis' Old English Lives of St. Margaret; and the whole of the essay
collection Rewriting Old English in the Twelfth Century.Prerequisites:
a strong reading knowledge of Old English (A- in English 104 or the
equivalent). Late Medieval
Literature: Love, Humor and Satire in an Age of War and PlagueCourse/Section: French
114ATime: MW 4-5:30Location: 106
DwinelleInstructor: David
HultDescription: The Black Plague, the Hundred Years’ War, serve
as the gruesome backdrop for one of the richest periods of creation in the
aristocratic tradition of courtly poetry and romance, extending from the
mid-fourteenth to the late fifteenth century. 
Were the light and frivolous fictions of love and seduction merely an
escapist fantasy, a way of thinking of things other than death and disease, or
is there a darker side to these fictions? 
In the course of the semester, we will study lyric and narrative works
by some of the best-known court authors of the period: Guillaume de Machaut,
Christine de Pizan, Charles d’Orléans, Alain Chartier, and François Villon, as
well as some anonymous works reflecting the growing importance of a bourgeois economic
and literary sensibility: the satiric Quinze
Joyes du mariage and the brilliant late medieval comic play, the Farce de Maître Pierre Pathelin.  Class discussion and readings in French.  No previous knowledge of Medieval French is
required or expected, though we will read some works in the original. The Romance of the Rose and the Tradition of Medieval
AllegoryCourse/Section: French 210Time: M 1-4PLocation: 4226 DwinelleInstructor: David HultDescription: This course will combine a detailed reading of
the Roman de la Rose and its critical
heritage with a study of the medieval tradition of allegorical writing.  Annex texts will include those written by
some of the great predecessors of Guillaume de Lorris and Jean de Meun,
including selections from Saint Augustine, Macrobius, Boethius and Alain de
Lille.  The latter few weeks of the
course will concentrate on extended passages from the fourteenth-century Ovide moralisé, which not only
illustrates the move to translation in the later Middle Ages, but also
exemplifies a type of exegetical reading, issuing from the theological
tradition, applied to a manifestly secular (and frankly immoral) text, Ovid’s Metamorphoses.  Additional topics will include the rhetorical
mode of personification, verbal and visual modes of allegorical representation,
Biblical exegesis, and symbol vs. allegory. 
Work for the course will include a class presentation and a substantial
research paper or alternate written assignment. 
Class will be conducted in English and no knowledge of medieval French
is presupposed, though reading knowledge of modern French will be helpful, as
the Rose will be read in a
dual-language edition, with facing page Old French and modern French
translation.  Since the class will center
on close readings, a certain amount of class time will be reserved for
discussion of linguistic and translation issues.   Women’s
Mysticism in the Middle AgesCourse/Section: German 110 Time: MWF 10-11ALocation: 215 DwinelleInstructor: Frank Willaert (Rubens Visiting Professor)Description: In
the 13th century, Lotharingia, i.e. the region between the rivers Scheldt and
Rhine, was the heartland of a major shift in the history of Western mysticism:
from men to women, from Latin to the vernacular, from the countryside to the
city. This course offers an overview of some of the most important literary
works that testify to this evolution.After having become acquainted with the political and cultural
situation in Lotharingia and with some key texts of the most important 12th
century inspirators of the religious women’s movement of the 13th century, we
will analyse how sympathizing hagiographers framed the lives of some of these
women into new models of feminine mystical holiness. We will subsequently read
and discuss texts authored by two female mystics: the Cistercian nun Beatrijs
van Nazareth (1200-1268) and the beguine Hadewijch of Brabant (middle 13th C.).
We will also analyse how the Visions of the latter were influenced by the
visual arts of her time. We will, for a while, leave Lotharingia for
neighbouring Flanders in order to see how some themes central to 13th century
women’s spirituality are captured in the miniatures of the Rothschild Canticles
(end 13th century).  We will try to understand why the beguine Marguerite
Porete remained silent before her judges and how John of Ruusbroec strove to
save the spiritual heritage of the women mystics. And finally, we will discover
how Hadewijch and her sisters still inspire the visual arts of our modern
times. Medieval EuropeCourse/Section: History
4BTime: TTh
11:00-12:30 (plus a 2-hour discussion section)Location: 0150
GSPP (Goldman School of Public Policy)Instructor: Geoffrey
KoziolDescription:
As a period, the Middle Ages is puzzling, contradictory, difficult, and
endlessly fascinating. It is also profoundly important, because its 1000 years
saw the development of principles and institutions fundamental to later
European, American, Latin American, and even East Asian societies. The first
half of the course begins with the fall of the Roman Empire and the church's
role in stabilizing the chaos of the period. We will then turn the conversion
to Christianity of northern pagan society, the evolution of kingship in
Anglo-Saxon society, and the creation of a Frankish empire on the continent
that gave Europe a lasting belief in its historical destiny. In the second half
of the course we will discuss the First Crusade, changing expressions of
religious belief and practice (including heresy and the church's responses to
it), the rise of states, the appearance of popular rebellion, and the literary
culture of the aristocracy. A good deal of attention is also given to the
position of women in society and the distinctive social values and religious
piety that grew out of women's piety. Apart from a short, straightforward
textbook, readings are entirely translated primary sources — generally whole
works rather than excerpted snippets.  The Viking
WorldCourse/Section: History 100BPTime: MWF 9-10ALocation: 0310 Hearst
MinInstructor: Daniel F.
Melleno**Fulfills
the Pre-modern Requirement for the History majorDescription:
In the late eighth century Europe was rocked by the first of the Viking
attacks. Over the next two centuries they left a legacy that has been
immortalized in books, TV shows, movies and sports teams. But what drove these
renowned seafarers to set sail from Scandinavia to shores as far as North
America and the Black Sea? In this course we will examine the world of the
Vikings, looking at the social, cultural, and political changes that the Viking
Age ushered in not just in Scandinavia but across Europe. We will discuss how
raiding and trade went hand in hand, how new ideas of kingship and worship
crossed cultural boundaries, and the ways in which history and legend overlap,
coloring our ideas of the medieval past. The History of Christianity through 1250Course/Section: History 185ATime: TTH 9:30-11ALocation: 3106 EtcheverryInstructor: Susanna ElmDescription: The course deals with the origins of
Christianity and the first eleven centuries of its expansion into a major
institutional, social, and intellectual force shaping Western Europe. The
central themes are the mechanisms and conditions shaping this expansion rather
than a chronological account to present this process as a model of
"institutionalization" (or not!) of religious movements. The emphasis
will be on patterns of crisis and reform, i.e., on conflicts arising within the
church itself and as a result of its dealings with the "outside"
world, and how these crises were resolved. The course is based on the study of
primary sources and will include problems of historical method. Requirements,
beyond a basic familiarity with Roman and early Medieval history, are one
midterm, one final, and a book review. The syllabus refers to books ordered,
but also mentions recommended readings in brackets (on reserve only); please
note also resources on bspace. You may use any BIBLE, and please bring yours
with you for the first weeks. The Medieval Episcopate in Italy and Beyond: Sources and
StudiesCourse/Section: History 280B/285BTimes: W 2-4PLocation: 2303 DwinelleInstructor: Maureen C. Miller Description: This seminar is designed as an introduction to
the wide variety of historical sources produced by bishops from roughly the
fifth to the fifteenth centuries as well as to the ways historians have used
them to explore the medieval past.  Among
the sources we may consider are letters, wills and tombs, liturgical ordines and vestments, charters and
registers, visitation records, hagiographical (vitae, miracle collections) and other biographical sources: the
Roman Liber pontificalis and its
echoes in episcopal gesta, sagas,
etc.  General histories and theological
tracts will not be treated, but the particularly sophisticated records of the
Roman see will be in order to explore papal influence and episcopal
independence over the Middle Ages. While Italian examples will feature
prominently, the geographical interests of students registered in the seminar
will determine the final syllabus (those intending to register are encouraged
to email the instructor).  Doctoral
candidates in history have the option of developing a research (285) paper
through the seminar.  A reading knowledge
of Latin and either French or German is required.   History of Political
Thought: Ancient and MedievalCourse/Section: Political
Science 112A Time: TTh
12:30-2PLocation: 166
BarrowsInstructor: Daniel
LeeDescription:  This
course provides a survey of major texts in ancient and medieval political
thought.  The course aims to investigate the classical origins and later
development of concepts central to political thought such as the state,
citizenship, democracy, and equality.  Readings will include works by
Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine, Aquinas, and Marsilius. Tyranny and TyrannicideCourse/Section: Political Science 191Time: W 10A-12Location: 791 BarrowsInstructor: Daniel LeeDescription:  This junior seminar in political theory seeks
to investigate the concept of tyranny in the history of
political thought.  Major topics for study in this seminar will include
the proper scope of political obligation, the permissibility of resistance
and disobedience, and principles of constitutional design.  We will
begin with a study of the classical origins of the concept of tyranny in
Greek and Roman antiquity, in such writers as Plato, Aristotle, Polybius, and
Tacitus.  With this background, we shall then proceed to investigate
the usage of the classical analysis of tyranny in medieval and early
modern thought, such as Aquinas, Bartolus, Machiavelli, and Calvin.
 The seminar will pay special attention to radical theories of resistance
and tyrannicide, which emerged in close connection with the French Wars of
Religion and the English Civil War, such as the French Monarchomachs and
English republicans.  The course concludes by exploring the place of
tyranny in modern constitutional thought, such as Montesquieu, Madison,
and Tocqueville.The Junior
Seminars are intense writing seminars which focus on the research area of the
faculty member teaching the course. The seminars provide an opportunity for
students to have direct intellectual interactions with faculty members while
also giving the students an understanding for faculty research. Heroic Legends of the North Course/Section:
Scandinavian 60                 Time: TuTh
9:30-11 Location: TBA Instructor: Kate
HeslopWhat is
a hero? What use were stories about heroes to the societies that produced them?
What is the relationship between heroes and gods (pagan and Christian)? Does
heroic narrative preserve memories of historical events? Can monsters or women
be heroes? How do heroes die, and why do their stories enjoy such a long – if
not altogether blameless – afterlife?Such
questions guide our engagement in this course with the heroic narratives of the
Northern Middle Ages. The course has a double focus: on the hero and heroic
ethos in a period of radical cultural, social and religious change; and on a
particular body of literature, the Scandinavian versions of Germanic heroic
narrative. It centers on the Poetic Edda,
a unique medieval collection of mythological and heroic poetry whose roots
reach back into the Viking Age, and perhaps still further back. But we will
also explore other manifestations of the northern fascination with heroes,
covering topics such as the oral transmission of heroic narrative; heroes in visual
culture (runestones, sculptures, jewellery); Latin-speaking Norse heroes in
Saxo grammaticus’ Gesta danorum (History of the Danes); how the heroic ethos plays out in more
realistic saga genres, such as the lives of the Norwegian kings; and the late
medieval flowering of heroic narrative in the Old Norse romances. A look at the post-medieval
reception of heroic legend in
Richard Wagner’s Ring cycle and in contemporary
media (e.g. Game of Thrones, the
History Channel series Vikings, video games, popular music) rounds
off the course.Scandinavian 60 is a requirement for the five major
concentrations in Scandinavian. Texts:The Poetic Edda, trans. by Carolyne Larrington, revised
edition (OUP: 2014).Seven Viking Romances, trans. by Hermann Pálsson and Paul Edwards (Penguin: 1985).The Saga of the Völsungs, trans. by Jesse Byock (Penguin: 2000).The Sagas of Ragnar Lodbrok, trans. by Ben Waggoner (Troth: 2009). Additional
texts will be made available in a Course Reader.Prerequisites: none. 
The course and readings are in English. Magic, Miracles, & Monsters in Medieval ScandinaviaCourse/Section:
Scandinavian 150Time:
MWF 1-2Location:
247 DwinelleInstructor:
Molly Jacobs BauerDescription:
The literature of medieval Scandinavia is filled with elements of what we would
call the “supernatural”: the walking dead, giants and trolls, sorcery, and even
Christian miracles. In this class we will explore the function of the
supernatural in Icelandic literature and society. Using primary source
materials in English, as well as modern scholarly writings on the fantastic, we
will investigate the following questions: were supernatural phenomena believed
to be true? Is it possible for us to tell? What role(s) might these elements
have played in Scandinavian literature and society, and what do they tell us
about how the “human” and the “normal” were understood?  In this class we will learn
about the culture of medieval Scandinavia as well as various scholarly
approaches to the question of the “supernatural.” Students will develop
critical and analytical skills through readings, class discussion, and
independent research.Fulfills L&S Breadth:
Arts & Literature Scandinavian
Myth and ReligionCourse/Section: Scandinavian
C160; cross-listed with Religious Studies C108Time: MWF 10-11ALocation: 219 Dwinelle**Fulfills
L&S Breadth Requirement: Historical Studies OR Philosophy & ValuesDescription:  Who were the Norse gods? Why did they have to die? And how do we know? This
course presents a survey of Scandinavian myth and religion from prehistory
through the conversion to Christianity (eleventh century), as illustrated in
narrative and, to a lesser extent, archaeological materials. The approach will
be primarily source-critical, with some use of comparative materials from other
mythologies. By the end of the course, students should know the sources well,
have an understanding of the major problems involved in this study, and be
aware of the more important scholarly trends in the field. Three hours
of lecture and discussion per week.Workload: A midterm exam (20% of the course grade); a draft of term
paper (10% of course grade); term paper (40% of the course grade); and a final
examination (30% of the course grade). Prerequisites:  None, although some
background in folklore and mythology, religious studies, medieval literature
and history, or Scandinavian culture are likely to prove helpful. Book List:Edda, trans. Anthony Faulkes,
ISBN-13: 978-0460876162 The Poetic Edda (second edition), trans.
Carolyne Larrington, ISBN-13: 978-0199675340 Norse Mythology, by John Lindow, ISBN-13:
978-0195153828 All
other readings are to be found in the course reader which will be made available
through bCourses. Magic, Miracles, & Monsters in Medieval ScandinaviaCourse/Section:
Scandinavian 150Time:
MWF 1-2Location:
247 DwinelleInstructor:
Molly Jacobs BauerDescription:
The literature of medieval Scandinavia is filled with elements of what we would
call the “supernatural”: the walking dead, giants and trolls, sorcery, and even
Christian miracles. In this class we will explore the function of the
supernatural in Icelandic literature and society. Using primary source
materials in English, as well as modern scholarly writings on the fantastic, we
will investigate the following questions: were supernatural phenomena believed
to be true? Is it possible for us to tell? What role(s) might these elements
have played in Scandinavian literature and society, and what do they tell us
about how the “human” and the “normal” were understood?  In this class we will learn
about the culture of medieval Scandinavia as well as various scholarly
approaches to the question of the “supernatural.” Students will develop
critical and analytical skills through readings, class discussion, and
independent research.Fulfills L&S Breadth:
Arts & Literature Early Scandinavian Literature: The beginnings of Old Norse literatureCourse/Section: Scandinavian 220Time: M 1-4PLocation: 6415 DwinelleInstructor: Jonas WellendorfDescription: This seminar will
focus on the earliest phase of Old Norse (written) literature and the core
philological skills of medieval Scandinavian studies; including reading,
transcribing, dating, and normalizing original Old Norse texts from facsimiles.
We will also consider editorial practices and the history of Old Norse studies.Texts: We will read the First Grammatical Treatise, Íslendingabók, Hungrvaka
and other pre-classical Icelandic and Norwegian texts. Secondary readings will
be in English and the modern Scandinavian languages.Prerequisite: At least one
semester of Old Norse-Icelandic.      Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaCertain courses, including Medieval Studies 150,
Medieval Studies 250, and Medieval Studies 200 (the graduate proseminar), are
offered by the Program itself. In addition, each term a number of courses and
seminars are offered at Berkeley in one or another field of Medieval Studies
and in subjects of immediate interest to medievalists.Medieval Studies 140: Medieval Latin (4 units)
Introduction to Medieval Latin: selected readings in prose and poetry from Late
Antiquity to the end of the Middle Ages, with attention to the special
characteristics of the Latin language during this period. Prerequisite:
Latin 100 or consent of instructor. Cross-listed with Latin 140: Medieval
Latin.Medieval Studies 150: Studies in Medieval Culture (2-4
units)
An interdisciplinary exploration of Medieval culture, focusing on an area of
the instructor's expertise. Specific topic varies with instructor. In the event
that the instructor is in residence for fewer than fifteen weeks, the course
will be offered for either 2 or 3 units of credit, in proportion to the number
of actual contact hours (one hour of lecture per week per unit). Course may be
repeated for credit.Medieval Studies 200: Introduction to Research
Materials and Methods (4 units)
The graduate proseminar. Basic materials and resources in fields represented in
the Medieval Studies program, as well as in some subjects involving expertise in more
than one discipline (e.g. liturgy, codicology). Emphasis on research aids and
cricital evaluation of their use. Prerequisites: Graduate standing or
consent of instructor.Medieval Studies 205: Medieval Manuscripts as Primary
Sources (2 units)
This course explores the use of medieval manuscripts as primary sources for
scholarship in a variety of discipines (including literary studies, art
history, music, intellectual history, social history, and canon law). After
reviewing the fundamentals of paleography and codicology, students will compare
various manuscripts using digitized images from special collections, including
the Bancroft Library of UC Berkeley and the Special Collections Library of
Columbia University. Faculty members from both those institutions will collaborate
in teaching the course using distance learning technology. Three hours of
seminar per week. Must be taken on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Medieval Studies 210: Paleography and Codicology (4
units)
Instruction in Medieval Latin paleography and/or the paleography of one or more
of the medieval vernacular languages of Western Europe, emphasizing the
evolution of scripts as well as practice in reading them. Ancillary instruction
in the principles of codicology with attention to all aspects of text-making
and book manufacture. Course may be repeated for credit if topic varies. Three
hours of seminar per week. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor required.Medieval Studies 241: Latin Literature of the Middle
Ages (either 2 or 4 units)
Graduate readings in Medieval Latin with attention to the evolution of literary
forms and genres from Late Antiquity to the close of the Middle Ages. Students
who take the course for 2 units must enroll on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory
basis. Students who take it for 4 units must enroll for a letter grade.
Prerequisite: consent of instructor. Course may be repeated for credit if
content varies. Three hours of seminar per week. Prerequisites: Classic 200
or consent of instructor. Cross-listed with Classics 241: Latin Literature
of the Middle Ages.Medieval Studies 250: Seminar in Medieval Culture (2-4
units)
This seminar on a topic of Medieval culture focuses on an area of the
instructor's expertise. Specific topic varies with instructor. In the event
that the instructor is in residence for fewer than fifteen weeks, the seminar
will be offered for either 2 or 3 units of credit, in proportion to the number
of actual contact hours. May be repeated for credit. Course may be taken on a
satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis with consent of instructor. Three hours of
seminar per week. Prerequisites: Graduate standing. Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of California The following is a list of courses relating to the Concurrent Degree in Medieval Studies.  Please see the online schedule of classes for updated information. Course/Section: Celtic Studies 105
Location: 6307
Dwinelle HallTime:  Monday/Wednesday/Friday, 9-10 [or by class agreement]Instructor: Melia, DanielAn introduction to the Irish language as written in the eighth and ninth centuries.  Grammar and lexicon
will be covered simultaneously with graded readings from real Old and Middle
Irish texts.  There will be some work
with manuscripts.  The surviving corpus
of medieval Irish language texts is large and includes legal, historical,
legendary, genealogical, grammatical, poetic, and religious works.  The language is closely related to classical
Latin and shows many interestingly archaic features.  The course will be of value to medievalists,
Celticists, and historical linguists alike. 
Limited to 15 students.  Written requirements: Weekly homework assignments, mid-term
exam, final exam.Readings:Thurneysen, Rudolph. Grammar of Old Irish. Dublin: School of Celtic Studies, Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies, 1946. Reprint, 2003. ISBN 1855001616.Green, Antony. Old Irish
Verbs and Vocabulary. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press, 1995. ISBN
1-5743-003-7.Strachan, J. and O. Bergin, eds. Stories from the Tain. Dublin: Royal Irish Academy, 1944. Reprint, 1964. ISBN 1874045267.
De Vries, Ranke. A
Student’s Companion to Old Irish Grammar. Ranke de Vries, 2013. ISBN
978-0615783109. Course/Section: English
205ALocation: 108 Wheeler HallTime:  Tuesday/Thursday,
11-12:30Instructor:  Thornbury,
Emily V.This class introduces students to the language, literature, and modern critical
study of the written vernacular culture of England before the Norman
Conquest—an era whose language and aesthetics now seem radically foreign. By
the end of the semester, students should be capable of reading and translating
a variety of Old English prose and verse texts, analyzing these works’ style,
and situating them in the context of early medieval culture. (You will even
have written a poem in Old English!) Linguistic mastery is emphasized, and much
of the in-class work for the course will consist of translation and close
reading. But coursework will also address a range of interpretative and
literary-historical issues, as well as introduce the tools and methods
essential to scholars in the field of Anglo-Saxon literature. Depending on
student interests, we may also consider topics such as palaeography; manuscript
context; the interaction of Latin and Old English; and/or modern translations
from Old English. 205A is normally a prerequisite for more advanced courses in
Old English. No prior knowledge of Old English is assumed, and undergraduates
may be admitted with the permission of the instructor. Course/Section: English 250, section 2Location: 301 Wheeler HallTime: Wednesday, 1-4Instructor:  Nolan, Maura
Sensation is a liminal phenomenon, a phenomenon
that marks edges and borders. It is the interface between the material world
and the physical body as well as between the body and the mind. Medieval
writing is full of sensation, from the theoretical accounts of sensation found
in scholastic philosophy to the richly sensuous poetics of romance and the raw
sensationalism of the fabliau. But the relationship between theories of
sensation and the performance of sensation found in poetry or other kinds of
imaginative writing – a relationship that, in contemporary terms, would be
understood as an aesthetic – is rarely made explicit in medieval texts.
Medieval theological and philosophical accounts of sensation focused instead on
the relationship between the human senses and divinity as various thinkers
sought to understand the meaning of embodiment in a world both material and
immaterial. Late medieval and early modern poets embraced sensation as an
aesthetic category without offering any theoretical or critical account of the
relationship between the human senses and art, though their work did reflect
common understandings of the nature and function of sensation drawn largely
from religious discourse. This class will read a variety of poetic engagements
with sensation, from the 14th to the 16th century, with
the goal of developing an account of vernacular poetry and sensory aesthetics
that stretches across the medieval and Renaissance divide. We will read
Chaucer, Gower, Hoccleve, Lydgate, Wyatt, and Spenser, as well as a wide
variety of poems drawn from anthologies and miscellanies and from less
well-known poets. We will also read a range of theoretical works on sensation
and aesthetics, from Aquinas and Bonaventure, to Kant, Burke, and Adorno (among
other aesthetic theorists), to contemporary cognitive accounts of sensory
perception and the aesthetic. Course/Section: French 211A Location: 4226
Dwinelle HallTime:  TBAInstructor:  Hult, David Introduction to
the study of medieval French language and literature of the twelfth and
thirteenth centuries. Through a careful analysis and critical interpretation of
certain canonical works (La Chanson de
Roland; Béroul and Thomas, Tristan;
selected lais of Marie de France;
selected romans of Chrétien de
Troyes; Le Roman de la Rose) we will
study Old French language and some main dialects; verse and prose composition;
theories of the oral tradition; editorial problems; and the material aspects of
the manuscript work (including some work on codicology and paleography). Class
will be conducted in English.
Readings:La Chanson de Roland, ed. I. Short; Le Roman de la Rose, ed. Strubel; Chrétien de Troyes, Romans; Tristan et Iseut, ed. P. Walter; Kibler, Introduction to Old French.Additional information:No previous knowledge of Old French language or
literature is expected. This course fulfills the Medieval Literature component
of the historical coverage requirement. Course/Section: History
285Location: TBATime:  TBAInstructor:  Koziol, GeoffreyRobert the Pious (996-1031) has always been a
problematic king.  On the one hand, a
contemporary life describes him as something of a holy fool.  On the other hand, he conquered
Burgundy.  It has always been hard to fit
the two together.  In addition, his reign
saw the rapid diffusion of monastic reforms from Cluny and Marmoutier, the development
of the Peace of God, and the first appearance of popular heresy in the Latin
West.  It was also the age of castles and
the "feudal mutation."  It says
a great deal about the puzzles of Robert's reign that we do not even know if a
"feudal mutation" actually took place.  This course will use Robert's charters to try
to get at what was really happening in early eleventh-century France.  Good French and at least rudimentary Latin
are essential; good German is not essential but very helpful. Course/Section:
Scandinavian 201A (4
units)Location:
6415 Dwinelle HallTime:
Tuesday/Thursday, 3:30-5Instructor: Wellendorf, Jonas 
An introduction
to the written language of Iceland and Norway during the Middle Ages, the
language in which skaldic and Eddic poetry and the sagas are recorded. Emphasis
on increasing reading ability through recognition of grammatical forms and
building vocabulary, with some presentation of literary and cultural
background. By the end of the course students should be able to read normal Old
Norse prose texts with the aid of a dictionary.Text: Geir T. Zoëga, A Concise Dictionary of Old Icelandic. Additional
material (grammar and texts) will be made available on b-Space.
Prerequisites: 
Graduate standing; consent of instructor. Course/Section:
Italian Studies 215 (2-4 units)Location:
6331 Dwinelle HallTime:  Monday,
2-5Instructor: Ascoli, Albert R.
A dated and yet
not entirely discarded cliché calls Petrarch the “first modern man,” and the
pervasive influence of Petrarch on both the growth of Latin Humanism and lyric
Petrarchism in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries is widely
acknowledged.  The thesis of this course
(and of a conference that will also be held during fall 2013) is that
Petrarch’s contemporary, friend and follower, Giovanni Boccaccio, had an
influence no less pervasive—indeed perhaps far more so—but far less widely
considered by the scholarship. 
Boccaccio, to begin with, plays a critical role in the Renaissance
reception and diffusion of the works of both Petrarch and their illustrious
precursor, Dante, as well as in the repackaging and expansion of the classical
literary canon.  Boccaccio’s Decameron, of course, generated a
flourishing early modern tradition of proto-novelistic short-story collections
(think of Marguerite de Navarre and Cervantes), but also provided substantial
material for the nascent dramatic tradition (from Machiavelli’s Mandragola to Shakespeare’s All’s Well).  His biographical collection, Of Famous Women, was an indispensable
source and model for the wide-spread debates on the status of women.  His Genealogy
of the Gentile Gods was a staple of the Renaissance mythographical
tradition.  His geographical treatises
continued to make an impact even as the map of the world underwent a remarkable
series of changes.  And so on and
on.  The aim of this course is not simply
to take note of the various ways in which Boccaccio’s oeuvre lived on “in itself” and in its influence throughout
European early modernity, but also to reflect on the cultural project and
authorial “subject position” that made “Boccaccism” at once ubiquitous and
invisible from the fourteenth century to the seventeenth.  Course
requirements: Students are expected to attend and participate regularly.  There will be occasional in-class
presentations and some shorter writing assignments.  Students will also be expected to attend and
actively participate in the international conference, “A Boccaccian
Renaissance?” planned for October 24-26, 2013. 
The principal assignment for the course is a research paper of ca. 6000
words (20-25 pages), an advanced draft of which will be presented to the
seminar during the final weeks of the semester. 
Topics must be closely related to the concerns of the course although
they may focus on authors, texts and issues not directly treated in
seminar.  Prerequisites:  Graduate standing; consent of the instructor.
Course Conducted in English. Reading knowledge of Italian highly desirable, but
not required; reading knowledge of French, Spanish, and/or Latin very useful. Course/Section: (GTU) HS 6025Location: Hedco Room (GTU)Time:  Monday,
2:10-5 Instructor: 
Aranoff, Deena, and Christopher Ocker
This course will survey a variety of historical
methodologies as they are commonly applied to the historical study of
Christianity and Judaism. The seminar will pay particular attention to current
scholarship and works of ongoing methodological importance from previous
generations which form the background of current cultural-historical study of
Christianity and Judaism. Seminar required of GTU doctoral students in history
and expected of doctoral students in other areas declaring history as an allied
field. Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of California The following is a list of courses relating to the Concurrent Degree in Medieval Studies.  Please see the online schedule of classes for updated information. Course/Section: English 211 Location: TBATime:  TBAInstructor:  Miller, Jennifer In this course, we will read all of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, along with relevant sources and other contemporary texts. We will also read current scholarship on the Tales, with the goal of attaining a reasonably complete knowledge of the different approaches that have been used to talk about Chaucer's work. Students will learn how to read Middle English aloud and will work on translating Chaucer into idiomatic modern English, a more difficult task than it seems. No prior knowledge of Middle English is required for this course.Book List: Canterbury Tales, edited by Jill Mann; Chaucer: Sources and Backgrounds, edited by Robert Miller. Course/Section: French
211A 
Location: 4226 Dwinelle Hall
Time:  Monday, 1-4
Instructor:  Hult, David Introduction to the study of medieval French language and literature
of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. Through a careful analysis and
critical interpretation of certain canonical works (La Chanson de Roland;
Béroul and Thomas, Tristan; selected lais of Marie de France;
selected romans of Chrétien de Troyes; Le Roman de la Rose) we
will study Old French language and some main dialects; verse and prose
composition; theories of the oral tradition; editorial problems; and the
material aspects of the manuscript work (including some work on codicology and
paleography). Class will be conducted in English. Readings:
La Chanson de Roland, ed. I. Short; Le Roman de la Rose, ed.
Strubel; Chrétien de Troyes, Romans; Tristan et Iseut, ed. P.
Walter; Kibler, Introduction to Old French.Additional information: No previous knowledge of Old French
language or literature is expected. This course fulfills the Medieval
Literature component of the historical coverage requirement. Course: German 276Location: 282 DwinelleTime: Tuesday, 2-4Instructor: Rauch, IrmengardReading of poetic and
prose texts in Old High German; passages selected to represent a broad scope of
chronology, geography, genre in eighth to eleventh century German. Of special
interest, among others:  the Otfrid credited with the introduction of
end-line rhyme into all of Germanic; one of the oldest documents in French
literature, the bilingual German-French Oaths
of Strassburg; and the heroic alliterative epic, the Lay of Hildebrand. Socio-political/cultural dynamics of the Old
High German period as reflected in a medley of dialects. Open to graduate and
undergraduate students. No prerequisites. Course/Section:  History
281
Location:  TBA
Time: TBA
Instructor: Mavroudi, MariaThis course is designed as a general
introduction to the use of primary documents pertinent to Mediterranean history
and culture during the ancient and medieval periods.  It will address
issues of paleography, codicology, textual tradition, and the critical edition
of sources. The main focus will be on Greek and Arabic documents,  but the
issues covered will be of interest to anyone interested in the manuscript
culture of the medieval Mediterranean even beyond these two languages. We will
mainly study books, but will also refer to administrative documents. Though the
bulk our material will be medieval, the course is of potential interest to
clacissists, since the works of ancient authors survive mostly in medieval
manuscripts.  The unifying theme for covering such a great chronological,
geographical, cultural, and linguistic gamut will be the common developments
regarding the technology of book production and the logic of authoring,
editing, and reproducing texts before the advent of printing, though
differences will also be discussed. Students will be encouraged to work
independently in order to learn more about the written documents of the
civilization and time period that most interests them beyond what will be
covered in class, and will be graded based on class participation and a final
paper covering an area of their special interest. In addition to the two-hour
seminar discussion, those who know Greek and/or Arabic will also read out of
medieval Greek and/or Arabic medieval documents. Course/Section:  History
280
Location:  TBA
Times: TBA
Instructor: Miller, Maureen
C.This seminar is designed to introduce graduate
students to the study of Italy during the Middle Ages (c. 500-1300).  Key debates and developments in medieval
Italian history – such as the phenomenon of incastellamento,
the origins of the communes, and differences between north and south – are
introduced through the reading of important monographs (e.g., Pierre Toubert's Les structures du Latium médiéval, Cinzio Violante's La
società milanese nell’età precomunale, Ron Witt's Two Latin Cultures).  This historiographical
exploration is combined with an introduction to medieval Italian charters and
charter collections. Readings will be in English, Latin, Italian, and French
(students must have a reading knowledge of at least three of these to enroll). Course/Section: HA 156 B / History C188ALocation: 141 McConeTime:  Tuesday/Thursday, 12:30-2Instructors:  Fricke, Beate and Mazzotti, MassimoIn this course we explore the intersections of art and science in medieval, modern, and contemporary history. Our aim is twofold. First, to show the close interaction between these two fields, and of the way in which historically they have shaped each other. Leonardo, Galileo, Darwin, and Einstein acted at the threshold between these two fields. Second, to turn specific instances of art/science interaction into the prism through which one can reach a fuller understanding of major historical transformations. Gutenberg and Leonardo will be the pivotal Renaissance figures, while the rise of Newtonian science and the Romantic revolution will guide us into the contemporary experience of the art/science interaction, up to the current transformation of both fields through computing and digital media. The course takes the form of a longue-durée overview that spans from the awakening of European culture through the reception of new knowledge from the Near East to the most recent encounters between artistic and scientific practice in the twenty-first century.  Course/Section: Italian Studies 212ALocation: 6331 Dwinelle HallTime:  Monday, 2-5Instructor:  Ascoli, Albert R.This seminar is the first half of a two semester
sequence which will study the evolution of Dante’s cultural project and his
poetics.  In this semester we will
examine the major works leading up to the writing of the Commedia: Vita Nova; the
major “canzoni”; De Vulgari Eloquentia,
and Convivio, seen in proleptic
relationship to selected passages from the Inferno.  Our focus will be on the dialectical
construction and reconfiguration of authorship and readership in both poetry
and prose, viewed through the filter of a series of pertinent late medieval
contexts: including the emergence of a romance vernacular canon;
proto-humanistic valorization of classical Latin literature; the rhetorical,
philosophical and theological traditions; the shifting macro- and micro-politico-social
order.  In the second half of the course
we will read the balance of the Commedia;
the Monarchy; and two or three other
of the late, “minor” Latin works.  The
aim of the course as whole is to recover, in some measure, the uneven
historical process by which “Dante became Dante.”Course
Requirements: Students are expected to attend and participate regularly.  Students taking the course for two credits
will do the reading, plus in-class reports and other short assignments.  Students taking the course for four credits
will also develop one of their shorter assignments into a final research paper
of 6000-7500 words (25-30 pages).  Course Conducted in English. Reading
Knowledge of Italian or Latin Required. May be taken for 2 or 4 credits.  Course: Celtic Studies 119ALocation: TBATime: Tuesday/Thursday, 11-12:30Instructor: Rejhon, AnnaleeA selective study of major works of Welsh prose and poetry of the Middle Ages, with special attention to traditional and innovative views on the genesis and development of the legendary history of King Arthur in Europe.  The works read will include the Four Branches of the Mabinogi; Culhwch and Olwen and The Dream of Rhonabwy, two native Welsh tales of King Arthur; the early Arthurian poems, "What Man the Gatekeeper" and "The Spoils of Annwn"; a selection of the poetry of Taliesin, Myrddin (= Merlin), Llywarch Hen, and Aneirin, as well as from the Poets of the Princes; Armes Prydein [the Prophecy of Britain]; the Arthurian section of Geoffrey of Monmouth’sHistory of the Kings of Britain; and finally, the Welsh romances of Owein and Gereint and their French counterparts, Yvain or the Knight of the Lion and Erec and Enide. All texts will be available in English translation. Course requirements include a midterm and final examination. No prerequisites.Course/Section:  Celtic Studies C168 (Cross-listed with Religious Studies C109)Location:  TBATimes:  Tuesday/Thursday, 2-3:30Instructor:  Rejhon, AnnaleeThe course will examine the mythology of the Celts—their gods, goddesses, festivals, and belief systems—as it is reflected in medieval Irish and Welsh texts.  Following a short presentation of introductory material regarding the history and civilization of the early Celts, the course will begin with the early Irish tale known as The Second Battle of Maige Tuired, a core mythological tale that best exemplifies the pattern of mythological deities and belief systems that pertain to varying degrees in other Celtic tales.  These tales will include in Irish, the Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel, the Tale of Macc Da Thó’s Pig, Bricriu’s Feast, the Wooing of Etaín, the Dream of Oengus, theWasting Sickness of CúChulaind, the Cattle Raid of Fróech, and the Táin, and in Welsh, the Four Branches of the Mabinogi, Culhwch and Olwen, Lludd and Llefelys, the Tale of Gwion Bach and the Tale of Taliesin, and the poems,  “What Man the Gatekeeper” and  “The Spoils of the Otherworld.”  All the readings are in English translation.Course requirements include a midterm and final examination.  Course/Section: English 104Location:  MWF, 11-12Time:  122 WheelerInstructor:  Thornbury,
Emily V.Hwæt! Leorniaþ Englisc!In this class, you will learn to
read, write, and even speak the language of Beowulf. Once you have
completed it, you will be able to understand—and will have read!—a wide range
of texts, ranging from comic riddles and love-laments to King Alfred’s
educational policy. Because Old English is the grandparent of modern English,
success in this course will also help you understand the grammar of today’s
language from the inside out.This course does not assume any
previous experience learning languages at the college level, or any prior
knowledge of Old English. Work will include translation in and out of class;
quizzes; daily participation, and exams.Required texts: Baker, Introduction
to Old English; Marsden, Cambridge Old English ReaderNote: Graduate students may enroll in this
class, and will be expected to do additional intensive work for graduate
credit.Course: German 270Location: 282 DwinelleTime: Tuesday, 11-1Instructor: Rauch, IrmengardDesigned for graduate and undergraduate students  interested in the external and internal
history of the German language from prehistoric times to the present and its
interchange with closely and remotely related languages. Genetic language
processes informing the German language across time are illustrated through the
interface with literary documents from ancient Cattle Raids through Runic,
Gothic, Medieval German and English texts, as well as excerpts from Luther’s
era, Modern, and Contemporary German. No
prerequisites.   Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaThe following is a list of courses relating to the Concurrent Degree in Medieval Studies.  Please see the online schedule of classes for updated information. Course/Section: Celtic Studies 128 (4)Location: TBATime: MWF 10-11Instructor: Walsh, ThomasA study of medieval Celtic culture, its society, laws, religion, history, and the daily life of the Celtic peoples, as they are reflected in a selection of texts ranging from medieval literary works to legal texts and historical chronicles. All works will be read in English translation.  Course/Section: English 211Location: TBATime: W 3-6Instructor: Justice, StevenThis
course studies all Chaucer's majors works before the Canterbury Tales. About
the first third of the semester will use the earlier works--the Book of the
Duchess and the Parliament of Fowls especially--to introduce Middle English
"philology," in the old, broad sense of that word: the texture and
logic of the language and its textual settings, the literary possibilities
available within those, the available channels of convention and innovation,
and the tools for studying all these things. It will also, inevitably, spend
some time thinking about literary history. The remaining weeks will give
detailed study to the Troilus and Criseyde, Chaucer's greatest and most
important work, and to the stages by which he developed the idea for the
Canterbury Tales. Course/Section: English 104Location: TBATime: MWF 10-11Instructor: Thornbury, EmilyHwæt!
Leorniað Englisc!In this
introduction to Old English, you will begin to read and write Old English from
your first day in class, while also learning fundamental principles of grammar
and historical language change. As you progress in your knowledge, you will
begin exploring the wide range of literature in Old English, including riddles,
love-laments, heroic poetry, and exotic travel narratives. You will learn what
to do about demons, and the surprising reason that pepper is black. (Hint: it
involves snakes.) By the end of the course, you will be able to read most Old
English texts with the aid of a dictionary. You will also have a strong grasp
of the linguistic principles that still shape modern English, and will be well
prepared for further study of modern and medieval languages.This
course satisfies the pre-1800 requirement for the English major.There are no
prerequisites for this course, and no prior knowledge is expected. Graduate
students interested in Old English should contact the instructor: a
concurrent version of this course may be taken for graduate credit.** English 104 (Introduction to Old
English) is customarily taught with provisions for graduate students to work at
a more advanced level. They can either enroll in the course directly, or (after
consultation with Prof. Thornbury) as an independent study running concurrently
with the course.Book ListMitchell,
Bruce, and Fred C. Robinson: Guide to Old EnglishOther Readings and MediaA coursepack Course/Section: German 105 (3)Location: TBATime: TuTh 8-9:30Instructor: Largier, NiklausThe aim of the course is to help students develop
proficiency in reading Middle High German texts. The course emphasizes
translation, grammar, and close reading, though the cultural context of the
literary documents and of the production of texts during the Middle Ages will
be discussed as well. In addition to the courtly romance Iwein by Hartmann von Aue, students will read medieval poetry. The
final list of readings and the way of proceeding will be determined in
consultation with the class. The course is open to both undergraduate and graduate
students. Course/Section: German 270 (4)Location: TBATime: Tu 10-1 Instructor: Rauch, IrmengardDesigned for graduate and undergraduate students
interested in the external and internal history of the German language from
prehistoric times to the present and its interchange with closely and remotely
related languages. Genetic language processes informing the German language
across time are illustrated through the interface with literary documents from
ancient cattle raids through runic, Gothic, Medieval German, and English texts,
as well as excerpts from Luther’s era, modern, and contemporary German. No
prerequisites. Course/Section: History 275B (003)Location: TBATime: W 2-4Instructor: Miller, Maureen C.An introduction to the history and historiography of Europe
and the Mediterranean c. 300 – c,1500, emphasizing broad patterns of change and
key interpretive debates. Themes include the end of the ancient world and the
character of early medieval societies; political transformations east and west
over the central Middle Ages; economic expansion and urban development; changes
in ecclesiastical institutions and religious cultures.  Students should expect to read and analyze c.
500 pages of monographic scholarship per week, preparing cogent notes and
argument summaries.  Requirements also
include active, critical, and courteous participation in discussion; several presentations
across the term; and two short essays akin to those expected of medieval
history students in their third-semester screening examination. Course/Section: History 280/285Location: TBATime: Tu 3-5Instructor: Mavroudi, MariaThis seminar
will offer both a general introduction to and an investigation of special
topics within Byzantine studies.  The weekly seminar discussions will be
organized as follows: weeks 1-9 covered the period from the 7th until the 15th
centuries in chronological sequence.  Students will be expected to become
familiar with the sequence of events in Byzantine history through reading G.
Ostrogorsky, History of the Byzantine State;at the same time, through
reading additional secondary bibliography, they will be expected to think about
particular problems that modern historians face in their attempt to study and
interpret these events. Weeks 10-15 will be dedicated to particular aspects of
Byzantine studies: the survival of Byzantine culture after the political end of
the empire in 1453; Byzantium and the Slavs; Byzantine economy; Byzantine
learned and vernacular literature; Byzantine epic poetry and the expression of
collective identity, in the Middle Ages and now; the study of Byzantine art;
Byzantine studies as a modern discipline. Students taking this seminar as 285 will
be required to identify a research topic early in the semester, on which they
will present a research report and produce a final paper. Course/Section: History of Art 192TLocation: Doe Library 425Time: M 9-12Instructor: Angelova, DilianaPurposeful
destruction has occurred many times in the history of art. This undergraduate
seminar examines the causes and theorization of such Iconoclasms through a
number of case studies, including Christian destruction of pagan images; the
Byzantine Iconoclasm; Maya breaking and reuse of images; image destruction in
Renaissance Italy, Revolutionary France, and the two World Wars; and the more
recent attacks of monuments and artifacts under the Taliban and ISIS.This course
fulfills the following Major requirements: Geographical area (E) and
Chronological period (I) or (II), based on the topic of the final research
paper or project. Course/Section: Italian 215Location: Dwinelle 6331Time: T 2-5Instructor: Ascoli, AlbertAs
the New Historicism began its quest to revolutionize Renaissance studies, one
of the first things to go was a little book by E.M.W Tillyard called The
Elizabethan World-Picture, Tillyard’s book, like Curtius’ even more
valuable European Literature in the Latin Middle Ages, was a compendium
of clichés, absent any contextualization in the complex of social, political, religious
conflicts and the realities of everyday life from which they had been
abstracted.  And yet, those clichés were deeply embedded in the language
and texts of the times, and the fact that we have stopped teaching them
systematically in favor of more interesting and complex, yet also more narrowly
conceived, topics has, in significant ways, made the period less legible, more
susceptible to partial and anachronistic readings.In
this course we will attempt to do three things, of necessity in partial and
heuristic ways.  First, we will revisit the “classic” Italian Renaissance,
as defined by Burckhardt, Michelet, Garin, Baron, Kristeller and others, and we
will read in and around a number of the texts upon which 19th and 20th
century historians of the period drew to construct their image of it (Petrarch;
Alberti; Pico; Machiavelli; Castiglione; Ariosto; Vasari). Second, we will
examine the margins or boundaries which both historians and period authors drew
upon to construct seemingly secure but ultimately unsustainable versions of a
linguistic, intellectual, artistic, and political “rebirth” in Italy—margins
including but not limited to: contrasting historical periods before and after,
such as “The Classics,” “The Middle Ages,” “The Reformation,” “The Baroque,”
and the “Enlightenment”; oppositional and/or exoticized spaces such as “The
Nation-State” (France; Spain; England), “The New World,” Islam, Africa, and
“The Orient”; repressed and/or subordinated groups including: the poor, women,
Jews, Moors, and so on.  Finally, we will consider some of the by-now
classic historiographical critiques of/alternatives to “Renaissance Studies,”
including Kelly’s “Did Women Have a Renaissance?”, Ginsburg’s “The Cheese and
the Worms,” efforts by Ruggiero, Rocke and others to give a non-idealized
picture of Renaissance sexualities; economically-oriented “early modern
studies; along with some more recent attempts both to critique and to reclaim
the Renaissance (e.g., Wojciehowski, Group Identity in the Renaissance World;
Ramachandran, The Worldmakers; and others).Readings:
TBD, on-going student in-put will be partially responsible for choices of textsRequirements:
a series of short papers (3-5 pp.), roughly one every two weeks, on weekly
course topics; regular turns as “discussion leader.”  Students wishing to
write a longer term paper may do so with the consent of the instructor and
appropriate reduction of other requirements from week 10 on.Taught
in English, reading knowledge of Italian and/or Latin useful but not
indispensableFulfills
REMS DE requirement for intellectual history, 2 or 4 units. Course/Section: Music 220Location: TBATime: Th 2-5Instructor: Zazulia, EmilyThese
are often the most interesting pieces from the time for students outside of
musicology, since there is a lot to talk about in the texts as well as the
music. We'll be engaging with textual and musical analysis, plus manuscript
studies/codicology, and notation. While some experience with music would
be helpful, it is not essential. Please contact the instructor if you are concerned that you do not have the right
preparation. Course/Section: Scandinavian 101ALocation: TBATime: MWF 12-1Instructor: Wellendorf, JonasThis class will introduce students to the written vernacular
language of Iceland and Norway in the Middle Ages. Class time will focus on the
grammatical structure of Old Norse, translating into English, and close-reading
exercises of Old Norse texts. By the end of the semester students should be
able to read saga-style Old Norse prose texts in normalized orthography with
the help of a dictionary. Assignments will include translations, grammatical
exercises, quizzes, a midterm, and a final exam. Regular and active
participation is required.Texts: Zöega’s Old Icelandic Dictionary (any edition) and additional texts to be
announced by the instructor.Prerequisites: none**If students need
to take the class for graduate credits, Professor Wellendor will assign
additional readings on topic relevant to the class.  Course/Section: Scandinavian 220Location: Dwinelle 6415Time: Th 10-1Instructor: Heslop, KateWith the
recent publication of a new edition of the eddic corpus (Eddukvæði, ed. Jonas
Kristjánsson and Vésteinn Ólason, Reykjavik, 2014), a comprehensive study of
eddic metrics (The meters of Old Norse eddic poetry, Seiichi Suzuki, Berlin,
2014) and a handbook (A handbook to eddic poetry, ed. Carolyne Larrington et
al., Cambridge, 2016), the time is ripe for a reconsideration of this
fascinating material. In this seminar we will read, discuss and write about
poetry in eddic meters, focusing in particular on the poetry of the Codex
Regius manuscript (Gks 2365 4to). In particular, seminar participants can
expect to:A good working
knowledge of Old Norse is needed to participate. Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaThe Committee on Medieval Studies offers a Concurrent Ph.D. in which candidates belong to a home department while also receiving training in the core disciplines of Medieval Studies. Applicants should apply to their intended home department (e.g. English) for admission to graduate study. Once accepted and enrolled in the home department, the student may then apply for admission to the Medieval Studies Concurrent Ph.D. program. The degree granted will be the Ph.D. in "X and Medieval Studies" (e.g. French and Medieval Studies, History and Medieval Studies, etc.).Candidates for this Concurrent Degree Program must fulfill the following requirements:1. Coursework:2. Advanced competence in Medieval Latin.
Concurrent degree students must have a strong reading knowledge of Latin,
normally demonstrated through the completion of two upper-division or
graduate-level courses in Latin literature, of which one must be Latin 140,
Latin 155A or 155B, or Classics 241. Departmental Latin exams may not be
substituted. 3. Reading proficiency in a medieval vernacular language.  Students must have reading proficiency in a medieval form of a modern European language outside the major field of study, either through examination administered by the Medieval Studies program or through approved coursework (an upper-division or graduate-level literature course; ordinarily drawn from the following: Celtic Studies 105A, Celtic Studies 146A or B, English 104, English 111, English 112, English 205B, English 211, English 212, French 112 A or B, French 114A or B, French 210 A or B, French 211A, German 105, German 201A, German 205, German 273, German 276, German 280, German 282, Italian Studies 109, Italian Studies 110, Italian Studies 212, Scandinavian 201A or B, Scandinavian 220. Other courses offering readings exclusively in a medieval vernacular may be substituted with the permission of the Graduate Adviser. Medieval versions of other relevant languages (such as Arabic, Greek, Hebrew, Old Church Slavonic, etc.) may be accepted in fulfilment of this requirement, again with the permission of the Graduate Adviser.4. Working knowledge of the material sources
of medieval culture. Students must show that they can work directly with
the primary material objects of their study. Ordinarily this requirement is met
through coursework, or approved specialist training, in the study of medieval
manuscripts: e.g. palaeography, diplomatics, or codicology. Students may also
demonstrate their mastery of primary material sources through an extended essay
making substantial and original use of these skills. When appropriate, and with
the consent of the Graduate Adviser, training in allied disciplines making use
of primary materials (such as epigraphy or medieval archaeology) may be
accepted in fulfilment of this requirement.5. Field Statement. The Field Statement is a document of 30–50 pages,
which situates the major area of interest in relation to Medieval Studies,
conceived as an interdisciplinary field. It is not a prospectus setting out the
specific plan of research for a dissertation, but a broader contextualizing
essay, placing the present state and resources of the student’s home discipline
in relation to those other disciplines of medieval studies that bear upon the
student’s planned research. This statement will be evaluated by the student’s
primary adviser and the Medieval Studies representative to the examination
committee (see [6], below). The Field Statement must be approved by both the
adviser and examiner at least 30 days prior to the oral qualifying examination.
It should thus ordinarily be submitted to the relevant faculty members about
six weeks prior to the date of the oral examination.6. Medieval Studies component of the oral qualifying examination. A
representative from the Medieval Studies faculty must serve on the PhD orals
examining committee; issues arising from the Field Statement in the broader
context of Medieval Studies will constitute the primary focus of the Medieval
Studies component of the examination. In the event of a failure on either the
Field Statement or the Medieval Studies portion of the qualifying exam, the
candidate may revise the Field Statement and/or retake the Medieval Studies
portion of the orals in accordance with the policies of the Graduate Division,
Policies and Procedures F.2.7.7. Colloquium. Regular participation in the
Medieval Studies Colloquium, and one presentation of dissertation-work in
progress to that Colloquium.For further information about applying to this program, please contact the Graduate Adviser, thornbury [at] berkeley [dot] edu (Professor Emily Thornbury). Appeals concerning the program may be made through the Medieval Studies Graduate Appeals Procedure.Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaThe Program in Medieval Studies offers an undergraduate interdisciplinary Minor in Medieval Studies. The Minor has three principal purposes:Undergraduates who contemplate applying for the Minor should contact the Graduate/Undergraduate Advisor, thornbury [at] berkeley [dot] edu (Professor Emily Thornbury), to discuss their interests and needs.Students can receive credit for fulfilling the Minor by completing any five upper-division or graduate courses in Medieval Studies. Please note that the following restrictions apply:Students who are contemplating advanced work in Medieval Studies should, if possible, take History 4B (Origins of Western Civilization: The Middle Ages) early in their undergraduate career. Other lower division courses are also recommended (e.g. Italian Studies 30, "Dante," and Music 75, "History of Western Music to 1700"), but only upper division courses can be counted toward the Minor.See the Medieval Studies course catalog.  Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaThe following is a list of courses relating to the Concurrent Degree in Medieval Studies.  Please see the online schedule of classes for updated information. Department of EnglishCourse/Section: English 104Location: TBATimes: MWF 10-11Instructor: O’Brien O’Keeffe, KatherineDescription:  Canst þu þis gewrit understandan? Want to? “Introduction to Old English” will give you the tools to read a wide variety of writings from among the earliest recorded texts in the English language. What is there to read?  We will look at some of the best kept secrets in (Old) English—short heroic poems, accounts of war, poems of meditation and elegies, history, saints’ lives, and romance—and get a taste of the curious (recipes, charms, prognostications) as well as the humorous (riddles). To complement our work with these Old English texts we’ll be using on-line and library resources to learn about the material culture of Anglo-Saxon England. With these resources we will also experiment with deciphering the texts as they appear in their manuscripts.  While we work on language in the beginning of the course we will also be reading and discussing the texts. Once you are up and running with the language, the rest of the course will provide practical experience in reading and discussing Old English works on a range of topics: the portrayal of monsters, saints, and heroes, cultural identity and the problem of the Vikings, the composition of Old English poetry, and the search for Anglo-Saxon paganism. In-class discussion will cover questions of cultural difference, translation, and otherness.No prior experience with Old or Middle English is necessary for this course.Required work: Quizzes, mid-term assessment, final examination, daily class participation, a short paper, one or two in-class reports.**Graduate students may take this course for graduate credit with additional reading and work. Please see the professor for additional information.Book list: Marsden, Richard. The Cambridge Old English Reader. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2004. Pb.  ISBN: 978-1-107-64131-0 McGillivray, Murray.  A Gentle Introduction to Old English. Peterborough, Ont.: Broadview Press, 2011. Pb.   ISBN: 978-155111-841-3        Additional resources available on b-Courses.Course/Section: English 110Location: 215 DwinelleTimes: MWF 9-10Instructor: Thornbury, Emily V.Description: This course provides a tour of otherworld visions and journeys in the literature of medieval Britain. After looking at some foundational texts from antiquity that influenced writers up to the present day, we’ll examine the geography of the afterlife (heaven, hell, and purgatory), with a particular eye toward understanding how these transcendent realms reflected the more immediate concerns of medieval authors. We’ll consider the physical connection of these places to the normal world, as well as the moral connection they have to human lives; we’ll also look at texts that depict other, less transcendent worlds existing alongside our own. After taking this course, students will know how to find the airport nearest to Purgatory, and what to do if they end up in the fairies’ country: they’ll also be able to analyze the classic motifs and meanings of otherworldly vision literature.No prior study of medieval literature is necessary. We will read most Middle English texts in the original, while texts in other languages (Old English, Latin, Old French, Middle Welsh) will be available in translation.This course satisfies the pre-1800 requirement for the English major.Book List: Borroff, Marie: The Gawain Poet: Complete Works; Davies, Sioned: The Mabinogion; Gardiner, Eileen: Visions of Heaven and Hell Before Dante; Treharne, Elaine: Old and Middle English c. 890–c. 1450: an Anthology. 3rd edition. Readings on bCoursesLiterature and the Arts: The Deaths and Lives of SaintsCourse/Section: English 170/1Location: 85 EvansTimes: MWF 11-12Instructor: Thornbury, Emily V.The paradox of Western sainthood is summed up by a phrase from Latin calendars: dies natalis, “birthday.” Marking a saint’s chief feast, the dies natalis celebrates the day of his or her death: death as birth will form one of the central threads in our examination of the literature and art surrounding holy people. Though our primary focus will be the Western Middle Ages, our study will begin with the early Christian period, and range up to the profound religious transformations that accompanied the discovery of the New World and the Protestant Reformation.In this course, we will read classic works of hagiography—stories of the lives and deaths of saints—that formed a central part of the Western literary tradition, inspiring thousands of related narratives and creating tropes that remain important to this day; and we will also analyze the visual art, especially painting and sculpture, connected with the cult of saints. Central themes and issues that we will confront include the nature of the historical and the miraculous; imitation in art and life; and the value placed on human suffering. Though we will only be able to cover a small part of this vast tradition, students who complete this course will be well-equipped for further study of the literature and art on saints.This section of English 170 satisfies the pre-1800 requirement for the English major.Readings in Middle English: Middle English in Multilingual ManuscriptsCourse/Section: English 212Location: Hearst Field Annex B40Times: MW 11-12:30Instructor: Nolan, MauraDescription: We will be working paleographically, linguistically and interpretatively on multilingual codices of the thirteenth century, as well as thinking about the history of multilingualism in medieval (including Anglo-Saxon) Britain and the eventual turn to the monolingual codex and its relation to the rise of a canonical literary tradition in English. But the main focus will be on decoding the mechanisms, functions and effects of multilingualism in thirteenth-century books, in order to read those books as medieval readers read them--in the manuscripts! All are welcome as we work on Latin, Anglo-Norman, Anglo-Saxon, and Middle English texts (among others) in medieval manuscripts this semesterMedieval Literature: Continuity and Change in Thirteenth-Century French Literature Course/Section: French 112ELocation: TBATime: MW 4-5:30 p.m.Instructor: Hult, DavidThis course provides an introduction to medieval French literature, starting with some of the most important courtly works of the late twelfth century and tracing their adapations in selected major works of the thirteenth century.  Among the topics will be the nature and appearance of courtly poetry, the invention of romantic love, the transmission of Celtic themes in the matière de Bretagne, the legend of King Arthur and the myth of the Grail, the early comic traditions, and early theater.  Some work will be done on medieval manuscripts and the transmission of these texts (including a session viewing manuscripts in the Bancroft Library). Most of the texts will be read in modern French, but instruction in the Old French language will be included and key passages will be read in their original linguistic form.Reading and Interpretation of Old French Texts Course/Section: French 211Location: 4226 DwinelleTime: M 1-4 p.m.Instructor: Hult, DavidIntroduction to the study of medieval French language and literature of the 12th and 13th centuries. Through a careful analysis and critical interpretation of certain canonical works (La Chanson de Roland; Béroul and Thomas, Tristan; selected lais of Marie de France; selected romans of Chrétien de Troyes; Le Roman de la Rose) we will study Old French language and some main dialects; verse and prose composition; theories of the oral tradition; editorial problems; and the material aspects of the manuscript work (including some work on codicology and paleography). Class will be conducted in English.Course: German 105Location: TBATime: TBAInstructor: Largier, NiklausIn this seminar we will read and discuss a range of medieval texts where the reader encounters the construction, the imagination, and the experience of alien, fantastic, imaginary, sanctified, and abject worlds. Texts will include visions, courtly novels, and travel narratives. Questions will focus on the figuration of the foreign, the construction of borders and distinctions, the work of the imagination, and the function of the imagination of the alien. A preliminary reading list might include: Visio Tnugdali, Wolfram’s  Parzival, Hartmann’s Iwein, Mandeville’s travels, Herzog Ernst. Depending on student interest, we will finalize the list at the beginning of the semester. Students are encouraged to send me their ideas and to read Wolfram’s Parzival either in German or in English translation by the first week of class.Course: German 201ALocation: 282 DwinelleTime: Tu 4-7 PMInstructor: Largier, NiklausThis course offers an introduction to the major canonical works of medieval German literature: Minnesang, Gottfried's Tristan, Wolfram's Parzival, Hartmann's Iwein, and the Nibelungenlied. We will also discuss modern receptions of these texts and materials. No knowledge of Middle High German required.Course: German 270Location: 282 DwinelleTime: Tu 11-1PMInstructor: Rauch, IrmengardDesigned for graduate  and undergraduate students  interested in the external and internal history of the German language from prehistoric times to the present and its interchange with closely and remotely related languages. Genetic language processes informing the German language across time are illustrated through the interface with literary documents from ancient Cattle Raids though  Runic, Gothic, Medieval German and English texts, as well as excerpts from Luther’s era, Modern and Contemporary  German. No prerequisites.Course: German 282Location: 282 DwinelleTime: Tu 2-4PMInstructor: Rauch, Irmengard. Introduction to a heterogeneous language which is unquestionably the most provocative of the major Germanic dialects in terms of language identification and language origin. Reading of the Latin prose and verse prefaces that serve as the keystone to the literary and the ethnographic setting of the Heliand as well as reading of selected fits from the Heliandand Genesis fragments, including the 2006 Leipzig find. Study of the isogrammar shared by Old Saxon with Old Frisian and Old English to the North, and with Old High German to the South. No prerequisites.Course/Section: History 149BLocation: TBATime: MWF TBAInstructor: Miller, MaureenThe history of medieval Italy is one of vivid contrasts: of beauty and brutality, freedom and tyranny, piety and blasphemy. The great poet of the Inferno summons us to consider such contrasts in nearly every canto: how can such stunningly beautiful language conjure images of such horrendous violence? This course explores the world that produced Dante, Giotto, and Saint Francis. It first traces the emergence of independent city-states in northern and central Italy after the millennium, emphasizing the particular conditions and experiences that created this distinctive medieval civilization. We will then focus on the culture of these vibrant urban centers using the artifacts they produced to discover the economic, social, religious, and political tensions underpinning them.  Were the divisions and inequities of this society central to its creativity?  We will explore with particular intensity the relationship between religion and society.  Special emphasis will also be placed on analyzing material and visual sources: do they tell a different story than the written sources?  Requirements include midterm and final examinations in addition to several short essays based on primary sources.Course/Section: History 280BLocation: TBATime: TBAInstructor: Koziol, GeoffThe point of departure for this class is the Peace of God, the movement between 989 and 1040 that may have been Europe's first great millenarian movement – or not; that may have been the first great popular movement in European history – or not; that may have been at the origins of French and Italian communes and the German Landfrieden; that may have been a crucial turning point in European political discourses – or may have been nothing of the sort. One reason historians have trouble deciding whether or not the Peace of God was new and influential is because they tend not to look deeply at rituals and ideas of peace and peace-making before and after the Peace of God. This course will therefore look at peace and peace-making in a wide variety of settings throughout much of the middle ages: for example, Carolingian ideas of brotherhoods and guilds; the use of legal pacts and conventions; peace-making processes and rituals in 12th- and 13th-century French cities; ideas of peace in early communes and Landfrieden; armies of peace as they develop between the 9th and the 12th centuries; and, very importantly, the centrality of formal institutions of the Peace and Truce of God in the Usatges of Barcelona (which have almost little to do with the Peace of God as first appeared). Secondary sources are in in English, French, and German. Primary sources are in Latin and English translations. One should have at least some Latin, though it is actually possible to puzzle one's way through the material without it. One needs either French or German, though preferably both.Course/Section: Italian Studies 215Location: 6331 DwinelleTime: W 2-5 p.m.Instructor: Ascoli, Albert R.Reading knowledge of Italian and Latin highly desirableCourse Conducted in EnglishCourse Description: Francis Petrarch has, more than any other single figure, served the emblematic purposes of those attempting to define the Renaissance.  If it is no longer possible to think of him (or anyone) as the “first modern man person,” we cannot deny his initiating role in both Renaissance lyric poetry in the vernacular and the Latin Humanist reclamation project, not to mention his early, influential contributions to characteristic early modern forms of representation (the sonnet sequence, the Triumph, the pastoral, the diatribe, both biography and autobiography, and, perhaps most notably of all, the epistolary collection).  This course will take as its loose focal point Petrarch’s lesser-known late gathering of letters, the Seniles, or Letters of Old Age, as we explore Renaissance conceptions of the human life span as these interact with the construction of cultural histories.  As is well known, the medieval-early modern concept of the shape of a human life differs considerably from our own.  From Dante’s “New Life” to Shakespeare’s “Seven Ages of Man.”  From this perspective, Petrarch offers an exemplary “case” as he filters available classical (Cicero, De Senectute) and Christian (the Pauline “homo vetus”) discourses on old age, while grappling with the existential crisis represented by his own deterioriating body, the failures of contemporary medicine, and the struggle to find a life after death in the fame he hopes his works will bring him (as in the famous closing entry in the collection, his Letter to Posterity.  In closing we will look at works from the later Renaissance that ring changes on the theme of old age, including Montaigne’s Essais and Shakespeare’s King Lear. Course Requirements: Students are expected to attend and participate regularly. There will be occasional in-class presentations and some shorter writing assignments. The principal assignment for the course is a research paper of ca. 6000 words (ca. 25 pages).  Topics must be closely related to the concerns of the course although they may focus on authors and texts not directly treated in seminar (whether from Italy or another national/linguistic tradition). Students enrolled for two credits will not write a final essay, but will complete all other course assignments, plus two shorter papers (ca. 5 pages) over the course of the semester. Prerequisites:  Graduate standing or consent of instructor.  Reading knowledge of Italian and/or Latin highly desirable.Scandinavian Studies Course/Section: Scandinavian 123
Location:  TBA
Time: MWF 10-11Instructor: Wellendorf, JonasViking and Medieval Scandinavia will explore developments and trends in the areas of social structure, trade and economy, religion, political organization, culture, literature, and technology during the Viking and Medieval periods (c. 700-1500) in Scandinavia. The course will cover the main Scandinavian countries (Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Iceland, Faroe Islands), as well as the broader region of Scandinavian influence (Finland, North Atlantic Isles, Greenland). Developments in Scandinavia will be contextualized against broader trends in Europe and western Asia.Texts:  Judith Jesch, The Viking Diaspora (2015); John Haywood, The Penguin Historical Atlas of the Vikings (1995); Gareth Williams, Peter Pentz, and Matthias Wemhoff, Vikings: Life and Legend (2014); A selection of primary sources in translation.Prerequisites: NoneCourse/Section: Scandinavian 101A
Location:  TBA
Time: TuTh, 3:30-5PMInstructor: Wellendorf, Jonas This class will introduce students to the vernacular written language of Iceland and Norway in the Middle Ages. Class time will focus on grammatical lectures, translations, and close-reading exercises of Old Norse texts. By the end of the semester students should be able to read saga-style Old Norse prose texts in normalized orthography with the help of a dictionary. Assignments will include weekly translations, grammatical exercises, quizzes, a midterm, and a final exam. Regular participation is required. Old Norse 101B will be offered in the Spring of 2017.Texts: Zöega’s Old Icelandic Dictionary (any edition) and additional texts to be announced by the instructor.Prerequisites: none Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaCopyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaThe following is a list of courses relating to the Concurrent Degree in Medieval Studies.  Please see the online schedule of classes for updated information. Course: Medieval Studies 200
Location: Wheeler 202
Time: M 4-7
Instructor: O’Brien O’Keeffe, KatherineMedieval Studies 200 is a theme-oriented pro-seminar which introduces
students pursuing the concurrent Ph.D. to problems in interdisciplinary
research, contemporary approaches to cross-disciplinary thinking,
bibliographical resources within and crossing traditional disciplines, and
styles of argumentation in medieval studies. The theme for Medieval Studies 200
in spring 2015 will be “corporeality,” broadly construed. This theme is
designed to allow wide interpretation to address the specifics of disciplinary
work for individual students and the interdisciplinary nature of medieval
studies. The semester project will be adapted to the individual: students in
their first year of graduate work will be expected to work on a publishable
article; students in the second year of graduate work will be working on their
field statement (see the website for the requirements for the concurrent
degree). I am delighted that the proseminar will have two distinguished guest
seminar-leaders. Professor Rachel Fulton Brown, Department of History,
University of Chicago, and Christopher Baswell, Professor of English and
Comparative Literature, Columbia University and Anne Whitney Olin Professor of
English, Barnard College,who will present their most recent research as it
illustrates the conduct of medieval studies.Readings will be available on b-Space.Medieval Studies 200 is required for the concurrent degree in Medieval
Studies. Entangled Subjects. A Genealogy of Medieval (Latin) Literature on DesireCourse/Section: CL 212Location: 225 Dwinelle	Time: Th 3-6Instructor: Bezner, FrankThis course is meant as a comparative exploration of (mostly) Latin Medieval texts that deal with the topic of love and desire – a poorly studied genre that is still in search of valuable conceptual models able to address its complex aesthetics; negotiation of related discourses (such as medicine and philosophy); and relation to the institutional, social, and political constellations from which it emerged. Our course is thus basically meant as a critical laboratory in which we will analyze how our texts relate to the specific institutional, political, intellectual, and discursive contexts in which they were produced;re-evaluate the aesthetic dynamicoperating in the genre (topoi; entries, endings, images; temporality and spatiality; sound effects; ambiguity; implicit poetics;and complicate the ‘classicism’ behind medieval Latin love literature which was not only influenced by Ovid, but also by author such as Horace or Martianus Capella.As indicated by the title of the course, we will pay particular attention to the construction of subjectivity and interiority in and by our texts: a question that we will less pursue in terms of an emphatic concept of a “consciousness of the self” (Morris, Benton, Moser) than against the backdrop of those normative practices, political agendas, and institutional dynamics that created the inner space of interiority. By creating literary ego-subjects, we will argue, medieval Latin literary texts negotiate both the normative pressure faced by clerics in the 11th/12th century and, on a more fundamental level, the anthropological implications related to the concept of an inner space constructed as a realm of self-control and self-discipline directed at one’s own sexuality.Texts to be read include: love poems from the Carmina Burana; the correspondence of Abelard and Heloise; the so-called ‘Loire Poets’ (Baudri of Bourgeuil, Marbod of Rennes); Peter of Blois; the autobiography of Guibert of Nogent; German Minnesang; Troubadour poetry.All texts will be made available in the original and in reliable translations. Knowledge of the Latin language is strongly recommended. The course is open to students from all medieval disciplines including ‘modernists’ who want to explore unfamiliar pre-modern terrain. The course will also be responsive to students’ interests and suggestions.Judgment in Early Medieval LiteratureCourse/Section: English 203/3
Location: 305 Wheeler
Time: W 11-2
Instructor: Thornbury, Emily V.Judgment--alternately
or simultaneously a mental faculty, abstract entity, virtue, void, or
threat--pervades medieval literature and thought. Focusing particularly (though
not exclusively) on Anglo-Saxon England, in this seminar we will attempt to
understand judgment's varied forms in the early Middle Ages, and will work
toward developing a critical discourse adequate to the topic and period. Our
investigations will include aesthetic judgment; wisdom and ideas of kingship;
hermeneutics; and judgment’s role in joining the individual and the communal.
We will be reading modern critical and philosophical works alongside medieval
ones; primary texts will include Juliana; Daniel; the Solomon
and Saturn and Soul and Body dialogues; Maxims I; Judgment
Day poems in Old English and Latin, including Christ III; and the Fonthill
Letter. Work for the course will entail in-class translation, as well as
presentations and a final conference-length paper.Prerequisite: Strong reading knowledge of Old English.Book List:  Arendt,
Hannah: Lectures on Kant's Political Philosophy; Kant, Immanuel: Critique
of Judgment
Recommended: Hall, J.R. Clark: A Concise Anglo-Saxon Dictionary Other Readings and Media: A photocopied course
pack. Chrétien de Troyes and the French Tradition of King
ArthurCourse: French
210 Location: 4226
Dwinelle Time: M 1-4Instructor: Hult,
DavidThis course will be centered upon detailed readings of the
five Arthurian romances of the great twelfth-century romancer Chrétien de
Troyes, but with an aim to understanding the development of the Arthurian
legend from its most definitive early version in Geoffrey of Monmouth’s History
of the Kings of Britain, through Wace’s Old French Roman de Brut, to
the ultimate codification of the legend in the cyclical prose Lancelot.
 We will explore both classic and more recent interpretations of the
romances as well as other issues such as manuscript contexts and Chrétien’s
influence both in France and elsewhere in Europe.  Works to be read will
include, in addition to those mentioned above, the Quest of the Holy Grail and
The Death of King Arthur.  Works will be read in bilingual editions
(Old French/Modern French) and/or modern French translation.  Prior
knowledge of Old French is not required. Required texts:  Chrétien de Troyes, Romans (Livre
de Poche, «La Pochothèque», Paris, 1994); La Quête du Saint Graal, ed.
F. Bogdanow («Lettres gothiques»); La Mort du roi Arthur, ed. D. Hult («Lettres
gothiques»). Augustine of Hippo:
The City of GodCourse: History
280/285Location: 204
WheelerTime: Th 10-12Instructor: Elm,
Susanna This course will focus on Augustine of Hippo’s City of God, De Civitate Dei, in its North African context. We will plan to read
the entire work (in translation, but with the Latin at our side) emphasizing
three avenues of approach (or three themes). The course will require in-class presentations of individual
books of the CD and a final paper. Writing History in
the Middle AgesCourse: History 280B/285B
Location: TBA
Time: TBA
Instructor: Koziol, Geoffrey The amount of history written in the European Middle Ages is
staggering, dwarfing the number histories from contemporary Byzantium, China,
and Islam. The diversity of the genres and the creativity with which writers
adapted them is equally staggering. There are Latin histories and vernacular
histories, prose histories and verse histories. There are histories of kingdoms
and peoples, of cities, monasteries, and bishoprics, histories of reigns,
histories of events, histories of the world and histories of individual
families, even histories of fictions (e.g., Geoffrey of Monmouth's history of
Arthur). Sometimes people (Salimbene, for instance) seem to write history just
because they want to write history without caring much whether it's a history
of anything at all. Because historians and literary scholars need to specialize
in order to get any research done, too often they use particular histories
relevant to their work without much awareness of what is or is not distinctive
about them, and they make broad generalizations drawn from outmoded scholarship
or limited reading. The purpose of this course is simply to read a small but
representative sample of interesting histories from the middle ages, along with
a small but representative selection of the most important recent scholarship.
We will begin with four fundamental histories: Eusebius' History of the Church; Bede's Ecclesiastical
History of the English People; the Royal
Frankish  Annals; and the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle (concentrating
especially on the "A" version). Because students are likely to have
quite varied interests and needs, subsequent readings will be determined in the
first class, according to a consensus within the class. I anticipate that the
majority of the readings after the first four will be drawn from the 11th,
12th, and 13th centuries (e.g., choosing from among Raoul
Glaber, Lampert of Hersfeld, Berthold of Reichenau, Suger of Saint-Denis,
Orderic Vitalis, Galbert of Bruges, Geoffrey of Monmouth, Henry of Huntingdon,
Roger of Wendoever, Otto of Freising, Matthew Paris, Salimbene…). Almost all readings will be in English translation. Students
who wish to take the seminar as a 285 will need to write a paper that
demonstrates research ability using research languages. Much of the most
important scholarship is in German, though only two such works will be
assigned. For students who cannot read German, alternative assignments in
French will be arranged. Stronach Travel
Seminar: Istanbul - The City and its Art from Antiquity to the PresentCourse: History of Art 291Location: Doe 308BTime: M 9-12 Instructor: Angelova,
Diliana and Fricke, BeateThis seminar seeks to examine the urban development, art,
and architecture of Istanbul, from its origins as a modest Greek colony in the
seventh c. BCE to the present- day megapolis of close to 14 million people.
Continuously inhabited for thousands of years and now one of the largest cities
in the world, this city sitting between Europe and Asia, was in addition the capital of two vast empires, one
Christian (Byzantium) and one Muslim (Ottoman). Its urban fabric, museums,
buildings and archaeological remains offer a unique perspective into the arts,
architecture, and urban development of thousands years of human history: Greek
and Roman, Byzantine and western medieval, Ottoman, and modern and contemporary. The seminar will have two parts. In the first few weeks, the
participants engage in learning in chronological fashion about the history,
architecture, and arts of the city. One to two weeks each will be spent on the
Ancient, Late Antique, Byzantine, Ottoman, Modern, and Contemporary periods.
The readings will be organized around a specific problem, such as: Greek Colonization and Urbanism in the
Mediterranean; Alexander and the spread of Hellenic Culture and Art; Building a
Capital for a Christian Empire; the Byzantine Churches of Istanbul; the
Christian Legacy of Ottoman Architecture; The Architect Sinan and the Making of
Ottoman Architecture; Istanbul and the Arts of the Ottoman Empire; Genovese Traders and Western Artists:
Istanbul in European Art, Travel Accounts, and Maps; Modernity and Tradition:
Palaces on the Bosphorus; and “Raise up the Roof, Builders!”: The Gecekondu
shanty towns of Istanbul. Please note: Interested
students should provide a paragraph explaining their interest, suggest a
research topic and how participation in the travel seminar might contribute to
their educational goals. Please detail any previous experience with Istanbul,
Byzantine Art, Islamic Art, Medieval Art, and Ottoman History. Send this information
to Matt Joyce in the Department of History of Art (matt [dot] joyce [at] berkeley [dot] edu). Authority in Person:
The Commedia and BeyondCourse: Italian Studies 212BTime: W 2-5Location: Italian Studies Seminar Room (6331 Dwinelle)Instructor: Ascoli, Albert R.This course will be devoted to a study of the latter half of
Dante’s career, particular the Divina
Commedia (read in its entirety, but with selective emphases), but also the
Latin works (letters; Monarchia; Eclogues) of the later years.  Our focus will be on the problematics of
poetic authorship (and readership) and political/ecclesiastical authority that
emerge full-blown in the period.  This
course is, ideally, the continuation of the fall semester seminar on Dante before the Commedia, but may be
taken on its own.  Dante’s works will be
viewed through the filter of a series of pertinent late medieval contexts:
including the emergence of a romance vernacular canon; proto-humanistic
valorization of classical Latin literature; the rhetorical, philosophical and
theological traditions; the shifting macro- and micro-politico-social
order. Requirements: Students
are expected to attend and participate regularly.  Students taking the course for two credits
will do the reading, plus in-class reports and other short assignments.  Students taking the course for four credits
will also develop one of their shorter assignments into a final research paper
of 6000-7500 words (25-30 pages). Course Conducted in English;
Reading Knowledge of Italian or Latin Required (May be taken for 2 or 4
credits).Books: Durling
translation of the Commedia; A.R.
Ascoli, Dante and the Making of a Modern
Author (pbk); Dante Alighieri, Monarchy, ed. Prue Shaw Introduction to Medieval LatinCourse: Latin 140 Time: TuTh 11-12:30Location: 109 Wheeler HallInstructor: Bezner, FrankThis course is meant as an introduction into the Latin
literature written during the Middle Ages. After a brief introductory
discussion of the problem of medieval Latin as a (literary and non-literary)
language, we will translate and discuss readings from the 5th to the 13th
century. These readings were selected in order to illustrate important (and
interesting) authors, genres, contexts, and features of medieval Latin
literature and literary culture. Texts to be studied include the Peregrinatio Egeriae, a late Ancient
travel account to the holy land; Carolingian political poetry written at Charlemagne’s
court; religious poetry by Notker of St. Gall; allegorical poetry of the 12th
century; hagiographic and monastic literature; satirical and love poems (Carmina Burana). As the course hopes to
be responsive to students’ interests, this list may be changed in part. In our
readings we will focus on translation and reading, but always discuss
institutional contexts and problems of interpretation. Two classes will be held
at the Bancroft library where we will be able to work with original medieval
manuscripts. Sound knowledge of the basics of Latin grammar and at least some
experience with reading (classical or medieval) texts in the original are
prerequisites (please email instructor when in doubt). — All texts will be
handed out (via a reader or space). Norse LiteratureCourse: Scandinavian
201BLocation: 6415
DwinelleTime: M 1-4  Instructor: Wellendorf, JonasAn
introduction to Old Norse literature, comprising reading and discussion of
representative sagas and selections from the Eddas. Readings in English and Old
Norse.

Texts: Gísla saga, Ynglinga saga, Hálfs saga ok Hálfsrekka, Þorgils saga ok Hafliða, Snorra Edda (Gylfaginning and
Skáldskaparmál), Þrymskviða and Atlakviða.Old Norse texts, translations of shorter texts, and secondary
literature will be made available through bCourses. Students should acquire the
following hardcopies:Edda, trans.
Anthony Faulkes, J. M. Dent. ISBN-13:
978-0460876162The Poetic Edda (second
edition), trans. Carolyne Larrington, ISBN-13: 978-0199675340 Prerequisite:  Scandinavian 201A or the equivalent. Also of Interest:Celtic ChristianityCourse: Celtic Studies 173Location: TBATime: TuTH 2-3:30Instructor: Rejhon, AnnaleeThis course will examine the early reception and development
of Christianity in Ireland and Britain. Particular attention will be paid to
the role that insular pre-Christian Celtic religious systems played in this
reception and the conversion to Christian belief.  Lectures and primary works that will be read
(complete or in extract) to elucidate this issue will be drawn from wisdom
texts, secular and canon law texts, ecclesiastical legislation, penitentials
and monastic rules, apocrypha and lyric poetry. 
A selection of saints' lives, both Irish and Welsh, with a French
connection via St. Martin of Tours, will round out the course.All texts will be available in English translation and the
majority of them available in a Course Reader. 
These will include:  the Irish
wisdom text, Audacht Morainn [The
Testimony of Moran]; Cáin Adamnáin [the law of Adomnan], Cáin Domnaig [the law of Sunday]
and Cáin Darí [the law of Dari]; The Irish Penitentials, the
"Monastery of Tallaght"; the "Martyrology of Oengus" and
the Old Irish poems of Blathmac; The
Voyage of St. Brendan, and extracts from the following saints' lives:  Adomnan's Life
of Columba, Muirchú's Life of St.
Patrick, Cogitosus's Life of St.
Brigid, Rhigyfarch's Life of St.
David, Lifris's Life of St. Cadog,
and Sulpicius's Life of St. Martin.Course requirements include a midterm and final examination.No prerequisites, although a basic knowledge of Christianity
is required.Graduate students may take this as a "200" course
with permission of the instructor and their graduate advisor.Introduction to Old
and Middle IrishCourse:  Celtic Studies 105A (4 Units)
Location:  6307 Dwinelle
Times:  TuTh 12:30-2
Instructor: Walsh, Thomas  Description:   This introduction to Old
and Middle Irish language invites students from all fields to study the
earliest recorded vernacular language in medieval Europe.  Our focus is the form of the language from
the 6th to the 11th century. Medievalists, Celticists,  historical linguists, literary scholars,  cultural historians, and the randomly curious
are most welcome.  Our goal is the reading of texts from early
Irish narrative and poetry. We will begin with a detailed introduction to
grammar and vocabulary; our reading is guided by texts that lead us through the
beginning stage of the language step-by-step; our emphasis will be on mastering
the fundamentals necessary to understanding this language.  Long a mainstay of
linguists and literary scholars interested in the earliest periods of an
Indo-European language, Old and Middle Irish also attracts those interested in
ancient law, folklore, genealogy, history, as well as those who focus their
attention on the archaic cultural features of poetics, narrative, lyric,
translation, law, religion, social structure, etc. Indeed, the large surviving
corpus of medieval Irish language texts includes legal, historical, legendary,
genealogical, grammatical, poetic, and religious works.  We are fortunate
that this vibrant pre-modern culture has left us much to think about in these
and other areas.Written requirements:
Weekly homework assignments and quizzes; a mid-term and a final exam.Texts:De Vries, Ranke. A Student’s Companion to Old Irish Grammar.
Forgotten Scholar Press, 2013. ISBN-13 978-0615783109.Quinn, E.G. Old Irish Workbook, Dublin:
Royal Irish Academy, 1975 ISBN 978-0901714084.Strachan, J. and O.
Bergin. (eds.) Stories from
the Tain. Dublin: Royal Irish Academy 1944, repr.1964, ISBN
1874045267.Strachan,
J. ed. Rev. by O. Bergin. Old
Irish-Paradigms and Selections from the Old-Irish Glosses (Fourth Edition). Dublin: Royal Irish Academy. 978-0901714350.Recommended and on
reserve:Thurneysen, Rudolph, Grammar of Old Irish,
Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies, School of Celtic Studies, repr. 2003,
ISBN 1855001616.Dictionary of the Irish
Language: Compact Edition, Dublin: Royal Irish Academy, 1983, repr. 1990. ISBN 0901714291Green, Antony, Old Irish Verbs
and Vocabulary, Cascadilla Press: Somerville, MA, 1995. ISBN 1-5743-003-7.Note:
Students are encouraged to find used copies of these books; supplementary
material will be available on reserve and on bCourses. Comparative
Mythology: Celtic, Norse, and GreekCourse: Comparative Literature 165Location: 2070 Valley LSBTime: TuTH 11-12:30Instructor: Rejhon, AnnaleeA study of Indo-European mythology as it is preserved in
some of the earliest myth texts in Celtic, Norse, and Greek literatures.  The meaning of myth will be examined and
compared from culture to culture to see how this meaning may shed light on the
ethos of each society as it is reflected in its literary works.  The role of oral tradition in the
preservation of early myth will also be explored.  The Celtic texts that will be read are the
Irish Second Battle of Mag Tuired and
The Táin, and in Welsh, the tales of Lludd and Llefelys and Math; the Norse texts will include
Snorri Sturluson’s Prose Edda, the Ynglinga Saga, and the Poetic Edda; the Greek texts are
Hesiod’s Theogony and Homer’s Iliad and Odyssey.  All texts will be available in English
translation.Course requirements include a
midterm and final examination.No prerequisites. Relics, Reliquaries,
and Cult Images. The Revival of Monumental Sculpture in Western Medieval ArtCourse:  History of Art 155Location:
106 MoffittTime: TuTh
8-9:30 Instructor: Fricke,
BeateThis lecture course is an introduction to Western medieval
art. It explores the origins and transformations of Christian visual
culture. It will focus on monumental free-standing sculpture, which
largely disappeared from European art for nearly five hundred years as a result
of the Christian backlash against the Roman veneration of cult images.
During the High Middle Ages monumental free-standing sculpture experienced
a revival that has been, and still is, the subject of many fascinating
theories and hypotheses.  This class will analyze the revival of monumental sculpture
in the context of liturgy, architecture, materiality of the minor arts and
reliquaries, as well as medieval theories on perception. Each class
meeting will focus on one specific object and/or text between 800-1400. The
course will outline the history of Western image culture, visuality and
fiction, taking as its central assumption that images can visualize and
suggest ambiguities that could never be revealed in medieval theological
discourse.Readings will include chapters from Hans Belting, Likeness and Presence. A History of the
Image before the Era of Art, Chicago 1997; Beate Fricke, Fallen Idols, Risen Saints. The Revival of
Monumental Sculpture in Medieval Art, Brepols 2015; The Mind's Eye: Art and Theological Argument
in the Medieval West, co-edited with Anne-Marie Bouché, Princeton
University Press, 2005. Dante's Purgatorio and
Paradiso (in English)Course: Italian Studies 130BLocation: TBATime: TuTh
9:30-11Instructor: Botterill, StevenThis
close introductory reading of Dante's Purgatorio and Paradiso
(the second and third sections of the Divine Comedy) aims to guide
readers through a complex and challenging poetic narrative, situate Dante and
his work in their intellectual, historical, and cultural context, and discuss
questions of ethics, aesthetics, interpretation, and critical practice raised
by the enduringly provocative presence of this medieval masterpiece at the
beginning of the twenty-first century.  Previous acquaintance with the
first section of Dante's trilogy, Inferno, will be found useful but is
not indispensable.Requirements: Students
will write three short (2-3 pp) response papers in the first half of the
semester; thereafter, in consultation with the instructor, they will devise an
individual project on which they will write a research paper.  There will
be no midterm or final exam.Texts:
Dante Alighieri, The "Divine Comedy," translated by
Allen Mandelbaum (Everyman's Library, ISBN 978-0679433132)Prerequisites: None Old Norse Literature Course: Scandinavian 125Location: 
TBATimes: MWF 12-1Instructor: Heslop, KateL&S Breadth:  Arts and LiteratureThis course is an introduction to
the sagas, the most famous literary genre of medieval Scandinavia. While the
course will emphasize reading, understanding, discussing and writing about the
literature of this period, we will also learn about the roots of Scandinavian
literature in the Viking Age, and about its material, historical and cultural
contexts. Readings will include Egil’s saga, Hrafnkel’s saga, Eyrbyggja
saga, The Vinland sagas, The saga of the Volsungs, Ynglinga saga,
and selections from The Book of Settlements and The Book of the
Icelanders.Texts:Margaret Clunies Ross, The
Cambridge Introduction to the Old Norse-Icelandic Saga. Cambridge. ISBN
978-0521735209. Required.The Sagas of Icelanders with a preface by Jane Smiley.
Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition. ISBN 978-0141000039. Required.Eyrbyggja
Saga, tr. Hermann
Pálsson and Paul Edwards. Penguin Classics. ISBN 978-0140445305.           Required.Saga of
the Volsungs, tr.
Jesse L. Byock. Penguin Classics. ISBN 978-0140447385. Required.Course
reader. Required.Prerequisites: None. Readings are in English.Course workload:
Short in-class
presentation, midterm test, term paper (5-6 pages, doublespaced), final exam.Scandinavian
Myth and ReligionCourse: Scandinavian C160/Religious
Studies C106Location: 
TBATime: MWF 10-11Instructor: Wellendorf,
Jonas L&S Breadth: Historical Studies
OR Philosophy & Values Three hours of lecture and discussion per week. The course
is intended to present a survey of the religious beliefs of Scandinavia from
prehistory through the conversion to Christianity (eleventh century), as
illustrated in narrative and, to a lesser extent, archaeological materials. The
approach will be primarily source-critical, with some use of comparative
Germanic and Indo-European data. By the end of the course, students should know
the sources well, have an understanding of the major problems involved in this
study, and be aware of the more important scholarly trends in the field.Workload: A midterm exam (20% of the course grade); a
draft of term paper (10% of course grade); term paper (40% of the course
grade); and a final examination (30% of the course grade).Texts:  Edda, trans. Anthony Faulkes, ISBN-13:
978-0460876162The Poetic Edda (second edition), trans.
Carolyne Larrington, ISBN-13: 978-0199675340Norse Mythology, by John Lindow,
ISBN-13: 978-0195153828All other readings are to be found in the course reader
which will be made available through bCourses.Prerequisites: None, although some background in folklore and mythology, religious
studies, medieval literature and history, or Scandinavian culture are likely to
prove helpful.Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of CaliforniaThe following is a list of courses relating to the Concurrent Degree in Medieval Studies.  Please see the online schedule of classes for updated information. Course/Section: Medieval Studies 200Location: 6220 DwinelleTime: M 5-7Instructor: Miller, MaureenThe gradute proseminar. Basic materials and resources in fields represented in the Medieval Studies program, and in some subjects involving expertise in more than one discipline (e.g., liturgy, codicology). Emphasis on methods of interdisciplinary research, research tools, and critical evaluation of their use. Course/Section: History of Art  258Location: TBATime: W 9-12Instructor: Angelova, DilianaThe objective of this graduate seminar (undergraduates are welcome) is to offer a global view of the Virgin Mary that cuts across periods and faiths as well as national and geographic divides. The first part of the seminar traces the iconography and veneration of the Virgin Mary from theological and historical perspectives. The Byzantine, Western medieval, and the Islamic traditions are to be examined. The second part considers the later history of Marian images and veneration through case studies from around the world: the Black Madonna, the Virgin of Guadalupe, icons of Mary in Ethiopia, and the miraculous statue of the Virgin in the Philippines. Class participation, oral presentation, and a research paper are required.EnglishCourse/Section: English 205bLocation: TBATime: TuTh 12:30-2:00Instructor: Katherine O'Brien O'KeeffeIn the last decade, there has been considerable interest in Anglo-Saxon law from the perspectives of history and literature, including a new, international project to re-edit the corpus. This course will consider both the social and textual dimensions of Anglo-Saxon law from Æthelberht to Cnut. We will also look at some collections of conciliar decisions available in Anglo-Saxon England and ask how church law interacted with secular law. Questions of evidence, of crime and sin, and of punishment will occupy us. We will also consider selected strategies for avoiding the latter.  Some of our usual suspects will be: adulterers, bishops, counterfeiters, exiles, foreigners, kings, murderers, nuns, slanderers, slaves, thieves, and wives, to name an obvious few. We will investigate what the laws tell us about the changing understanding of the body during the Anglo-Saxon period and about the different schemes of rendering satisfaction for crime and sin.Requirements:  daily engagement with the texts, one or two class presentations, a short experimental paper (aimed at trying out the idea for the final paper), a final paper of 15-20 pages. Topics will be chosen in consultation with the professor.Course/Section: English 211Location: 106 MulfordTime: TuTh 2:00-3:30Instructor: Maura NolanThis course will introduce specialists and non-specialists alike to the close reading of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales.  You need have no previous experience with Middle English; indeed, if you do have previous experience, you may find that Chaucer challenges you in ways you aren't expecting!  We will start with the General Prologue and read the Tales through to the Retractions, paying attention along the way to who Chaucer was, why he was writing, what he was reading, where he situated his tales, when everything takes place, and above all, HOW Chaucer's literary art functions at the level of the word, the clause, the sentence, the line, the stanza, all the way up to the idea of the Tales as a whole.  A central question that we will address will be the question of style.  Can we use the word "style" to describe Chaucer's artfulness?  What does "style" mean in Middle English and in the classical rhetoric from which Chaucer got many of his ideas about literature?  What do we mean by style in the present day?  Is it a useful category of literary analysis?  What is the relationship of style to theory and to history?  In the simplest terms, what enables a critic to identify a style as characteristic of an author? Of an era? Of a place?  Students will write short papers and exercises rather than a seminar paper, though the option of a long paper is open to anyone wishing to write one.If you want to get started, you can get Jill Mann's Penguin edition of the Canterbury Tales.  It is also available as a Kindle edition. **However** Buyers beware!  When you go to the listing on Amazon for the Mann edition, and click on "Kindle edition," you are taken to a 99 cent edition by someone I've never heard of.   DO NOT  get this edition.  Instead, search the Kindle store using this search string, "Chaucer Canterbury Tales Middle English."  The Mann Kindle edition should come up in this search.  You will know it is the right edition because it is the one costing $3.99. (**Update as of Oct. 19--Penguin has caught on to this low low price and raised it to $15, I'm sorry to say). Or use this link: https://www.amazon.com/Canterbury-Tales-Penguin-Classics-ebook/dp/B002RI9O6Y/ref=sr_1_1?s=digital-text&ie=UTF8&qid=1474606938&sr=1-1&keywords=chaucer+canterbury+tales+Middle+English. (Working as of Sept. 22, 2016). If you still can't find it, email me and I'll unearth it again.  They don't seem to want to sell this book, for some reason.  No doubt they are worried that worldwide demand would crash their servers if they made it too easy to acquire.FrenchCourse/Section: French 210bLocation: Dwinelle 219Time: M 1:00-4:00Instructor: David HultThis seminar will focus on the tradition(s) of love narrative in the later French Middle Ages beginning with two important thirteenth-century works that set the tone for centuries to come by inscribing the lyric tradition within romance narrative: Guillaume de Lorris’s enormously influential, fragmentary Roman de la Rose; and Richard de Fournival’s intriguing Bestiary of Love, which inscribes the love quest within the hitherto didactic genre of animal lore, the bestiary. The balance of the semester will be devoted to noted authors of the fourteenth and fifteenth cenuries, including Guillaume de Machaut, Jean Froissart, Christine de Pizan, Alain Chartier, Charles d’Orléans, and René d’Anjou. Although previous knowledge of Old French is not required, inasmuch as most texts will be read in original language editions with facing-page modern French translation, class discussions will frequently focus on the original text. Topics of discussion will include the question of the first-person narrative voice, the relations between lyric and romance, song and book, evolving notions of authorship, and the rhetoric of courtly love. For a more detailed description please visit French Department website at http://french.berkeley.eduGermanCourse/Section: German 205/Comparative Literature 212Location: Dwinelle 282Time: TuTh 4:00-7:00Instructor: Niklaus LargierSo-called ‘mystical’ forms of thought and experience have played a major role in the history of medieval theology and spirituality. They also were of importance to modern authors from Hegel to Georg Lukàcs, Martin Heidegger, Georges Bataille, and Jacques Derrida; and from Novalis to Robert Musil, Paul Celan, Ingeborg Bachmann, Pierre Klossowski, to John Cage (to name just a few). In this seminar we will read and discuss medieval key texts written by Ps. Dionysius Areopagita, Eckhart of Hochheim (Meister Eckhart), Henry Suso, Mechthild of Magdeburg, Hadewijch of Antwerp, and Angela Foligno, some of the most significant medieval figures in this tradition. Depending on student interest we can add other authors to this list, e.g., Bernhard of Clairvaux, William of Saint Thierry, Hugh and Richard of Saint Victor. During a second phase of the seminar we will turn our attention to baroque mysticism, especially Angelus Silesius and Jacob Böhme. Based on the class discussion and on individual student interests, we will then look into the ways how these texts have been read by 19th and 20th century authors and explore the impact they had on the formation of modern concepts of (and discussions about) subjectivity, affect, and agency. Depending on student interests, we will decide on a final version of the syllabus at the first meeting of class.ItalianCourse/Section: Italian 163Location: Dwinelle 219Time: TuTh 3:30-5:00Instructor: Henrike Christiane LangeThe names of Dante, Boccaccio, and Petrarch stand for a new quality of literary production in Italy between the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. Their self-reliant language and freshly conceptualized texts would stand in a constant dialogue with the visual arts of their time. At times leading, at times following, the visual arts were called to reform themselves in their reaction to the new ideals of the texts in a mutually beneficial relationship.With their works and cultural projects, Dante, Boccaccio, and Petrarch are situated between what has been called the “medieval world” and what is known as “the Renaissance”. On the one hand, the class will strengthen an awareness of the limits and benefits of such designations in the intellectual management of history. On the other hand, the class will investigate the different genres and the inherent visuality of these classical texts in the context of the visual media of their time.To frame the writers’ individual contributions for the fields of language and literature studies, the literary works will be seen in the context of their predecessors and teachers such as Brunetto Latini as well as in the long lines of followers, interpreters, and epigones. For the latter, the main focus will be on the 14th and 15th centuries, but the long history of literary and artistic responses to Dante, Boccaccio, and Petrarch will lead us up into the nineteenth and twentieth centuries and into artistic issues of the present day. Depending on students’ interests, contemporary Dante illustrations in present-day America and the history of film can be part of this long perspective.Visual media discussed will include book illustrations, paintings in small and large formats, murals, iconographical architecture, sculpture in the round and relief sculpture, objects, books as works of art, and musical and scientific instruments as they are presented in the texts and in the imagery of their time. Early print culture can be explored depending on the interests of the group. Within the rich offerings of relevant material, we will identify individual pieces or texts of interest for each student, so that every student has a chance to become an expert on one specific piece throughout specific writing tasks, discussion, and research exercises, building up to a final paper and final in-class presentation.Course/Section: Latin 140Location: Dwinelle 205Time: TuTh 12:30-2:00Instructor: Frank BeznerThis course is meant as an introduction into the Latin literature of the Middle Ages. After a brief introduction into medieval Latin as a literary and non-literary language, we will translate and discuss readings from the 5th to the 13th century, readings selected in order to illustrate important and interesting authors, genres, contexts, and features of medieval Latin Latin literature and literary culture. Texts to be studied include the Peregrinatio Egeriae, a late Ancient travel account to the holy land; Carolingian political poetry written at Charlemagne’s court; religious poetry by Notker of St. Gall; allegorical poetry of the 12th century; hagiographic and monastic literature; satirical and love poems (Carmina Burana). Two classes will be held at the Bancroft library where we will be able to work with original medieval manuscripts. Overall, we will focus on translation and analysis, but never without discussing institutional contexts and problems of interpretation. Sound knowledge of the basics of Latin grammar and at least some experience with reading (classical or medieval) texts in the original (ideally through courses such as Latin 100, 101 etc.) are prerequisites. Please email instructor when in doubt. — All texts will be handed out (via a reader or bcourses).Course/Section: Linguistics 230Location: Dwinelle 1303Time: TuTh 11:00-12:30Instructor: Gary HollandThe scholarly tradition of historical and comparative linguistics. Methods of reconstruction. Course/Section: Scandinavian 220Location: Dwinelle 6415Time: M 1:00-4:00Instructor: Jonas WellendorfTheorists of myth and mythology rarely draw on Old Norse materials and scholarship on Old Norse myth is often carried out without reference to other mythologies. Nevertheless, a number of influential applications of structuralist, ritualists and ideological approaches to Norse myth can be found. In this seminar, we will study these applications and seek apply to some of the major theories of myth and mythology of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries to the Old Norse mythological primary sources. The aim will be to see what kinds of answers they can give to questions of origin, subject matter and function of Norse myths. In addition to primary sources and specialized scholarship on Old Norse myth, readings will include works by Dumézil, Dundes, Eliade, Girard, Lévi-Strauss, Lincoln, Malinowski, and others.Texts: The Prose Edda, The mythological poems of the Poetic Edda. Both will be read in Old Norse. Secondary readings will primarily be in English.Prerequisites: At least two semesters of Old Norse language studies (or equivalent).Copyright © 2013 Regents of the University of California