The Area of Concentration requirement is as follows:  Majors will complete an individually articulated area of concentration consisting of a minimum of 20 units of upper-division coursework. The plan for the area of concentration (the application to declare the major) must be approved during the student's sophomore or junior year by an American Studies faculty advisor. The concentration requirement assures that students have reasonable depth and breadth in their American Studies major. The concentrations must include coursework from two or more departments or fields, and must examine a theme, issue, or problem in American culture. Areas of concentration may be highly individualized, depending on the student's personal interest, prior preparation, and the availability of courses.To the right are examples of how areas of concentration could be formulated for specific American Studies majors.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login"American Folklore and Folklife" allows the student interested in the study of folklore and folklife to examine and analyze traditional expressive culture (e.g., ethnic, regional, occupational, gender, and other traditional identities) in all its forms.  Examining the historical, cultural, social, and psychological dimensions of such expressive forms as myth, legend, folktale, music, dance, art, belief, foodways, ritual and ceremony, the student investigates how tradition expresses the dynamics of human behavior.Anthropology 121AC - American Material CultureAnthropology 163AC - American FolkloreNative American Studies 120 - Topics in Native American ArtsNutritional Science 104 - Human Food PracticesReligious Studies 171AC - Religious Pluralism in AmericaTheater, Dance and Performance Studies 121 - Performance and CultureAmerican Studies 110 - When topic is “Folklore and American Culture”Anthropology 122A/B/F/G - Archaeology of the AmericasAnthropology 136B - Museum MethodsAnthropology 160AC - Forms of FolkloreAnthropology 162AC - The Folktale in the Modern World: The Marvelous and the MonstrousEnglish 133T - When topic is “Orality and Black Literature”English 166AC - When topic is “Race and Revision in Early America”Linguistics 151 - Language and GenderNative American Studies 149 - Gender in Native American SocietyPsychology 106 - Psychology of DreamsRhetoric 132 - Rhetoric, Culture and SocietySociology C112/Religious Studies C182 - Sociology of ReligionThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration examines both historic and contemporary social, economic, cultural, and psychological factors that shape food consumption practices. Exploring food systems from production through consumption, the student traces agricultural concerns, examines environmental, ethical, and economic factors in food production and distribution, and investigates the various beliefs, rituals, and behaviors surrounding food in the United States.Anthropology 121AC - American Material CultureEnvironmental Economics and Policy 141 - Agricultural and Environmental PolicyESPM C159 - Human DietHistory 103D - “Food and Eating Practices in the U.S. and Europe Since the 19th Century”Nutritional Science 104 - Human Food PracticesNutritional Science 135 - Food Systems Organization and ManagementAmerican Studies 110 - When topic is “Advertising in America” or “California Foodways”Nutritional Science 106 - Introduction to Food ScienceNutritional Science 166 - Nutrition in the CommunityThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration examines the creation, production, reception, and consumption of popular/commercial culture in the U.S.African American Studies 142B - The Cross Cultural Images of American Minorities in FilmAmerican Studies C118 - Topics in Popular CultureEnglish 176 - Literature and Popular CultureGender and Women’s Studies 125 - Women and FilmNative American Studies 158 - Native Americans and the CinemaSociology 160 - Sociology of CultureAfrican American Studies 142AC - Race and American FilmAmerican Studies 101 - When topic is “The 1980s”American Studies 101 - When topic is “The Atomic Age”American Studies 110 - When topic is “Advertising in America”American Studies 110 - When topic is “The American Teenager”American Studies C125 - American Media and Global PoliticsEnglish 150 When topic is - “Novel to Film Adaptation”Film 108 - Film GenreHistory 124b - The Recent United StatesMedia Studies 102 - The Effects of Mass MediaSociology 180 - American SocietyThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login“American Public Policy” investigates the way that social problems are defined and analyzed in the United States, and focuses on the political and historical dimensions of public policy.African American Studies 107 - Race and Public PolicyLegal Studies 162 - Courts and Social PolicyPolitical Science 183 - Administrative BehaviorPublic Policy 101 - Introduction to Public Policy AnalysisPublic Health 150D - Introduction to Health Policy and ManagementPublic Policy 170 - Ethics in Public PolicyAsian American Studies - 145 Politics, Public Policy, and Asian American CommunitiesLegal Studies C165 - Drug, Tobacco, and Alcohol PolicyPolitical Science 189 - Topics in Public Organization and PolicyPublic Policy 103 - Wealth and PovertyPublic Policy 117AC - Race, Ethnicity, and Public PolicyPublic Policy 184 - The Economics of Public Problem-SolvingSocial Welfare 112 - Social Welfare PolicyThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginLooking at buildings, artworks, objects of all kinds for social content and cultural meaning, this concentration draws on the resources of many departments. Focusing on physical objects designed and made by artisans, artists, professional designers, vernacular builders, housewives and others, students concentrate on analyzing the historical, rhetorical, and cultural as well as functional aspects of the human-made material world. Taking foundational/lower division courses as required in several of the listed disciplines, students will design their major drawing on these and other (approved) offerings.Anthropology 121A/AC - American Material CultureArchitecture 174C - San Francisco ArchitectureArt History 185A - American Art (1800-present)Art History C189 - The American Forest: Its Ecology, History, and RepresentationGeography 125 - The American CityLandscape Architecture 170 - History and Literature of Landscape ArchitectureAmerican Studies C111A - Architecture in Depression and WarAmerican Studies 110 - When topic is “Advertising in America”Anthropology 122A - Archaeology of North AmericaAnthropology 148 - Anthropology of the EnvironmentArchitecture 118 - Housing American CulturesArt History 185B - American Architecture: Domestic FormsCity Planning 111 - Introduction to HousingCity Planning 140 - Urban Design: City-Building and Place-MakingEnvironmental Design C169A - American Cultural Landscapes, 1600 to 1900Environmental Design C169B - American Cultural Landscapes, 1900 to PresentGeography 181 - Urban Field StudyHistory 120AC - American Environmental and Cultural HistoryLandscape Architecture 141AC - American Landscape: Multicultural Difference & DiversityLandscape Architecture C171 - The American Designed Landscape since 1850The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe sequence below assumes interest in the cultural meaning of computer design and the social construction of American engineering education: an investigation of the ways in which computer design is formed and changed in a social context. N.B. For advanced technical courses, the student would need rigorous preparation in mathematics, physics, and computer science. For instance, the student might be an undergraduate engineering student who transferred to American Studies in his or her junior year. In some cases, non-engineering students might negotiate permission to take such courses (*) on a P/NP basis.American Studies 102 - When topic is “Digital Neighborhoods”American Studies C134 - Information Technology and SocietyEECS 195 - Social Implications of Computer TechnologyInterdepartmental Studies 100AC - Technology and the American ExperienceInterdisciplinary Studies 100D - Introduction to Technology, Society, and CulturePolitical Science 138D - Governance of the E-conomyEECS 150* - Components and Design Techniques for Digital SystemsEECS 152* - Computer Architecture and EngineeringEECS C182 - The Neural Basis of Thought and LanguageThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login“Disability Studies” directs its focus toward how society creates “disability” by constructing identities and barriers.Anthropology 115 - Introduction to Medical AnthropologyEnglish 175 - Literature and DisabilityPublic Health 130AC - Aging, Health, and DiversitySociology 155 - Sociology of Illness and MedicineUGIS 110 - Introduction to Disability StudiesUGIS 112 - Women and DisabilityAnthropology 119 - Special Topics in Medical AnthropologyChicano Studies 176 - Chicanos and Health CareCity and Regional Planning 120 - Community Planning and Public Policy for DisabilityEconomics 157 - Health EconomicsLandscape Architecture 140 - Social and Psychological Factors in Open Space DesignUGIS 116 - Disability, Identity, and Social MovementsThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration explores the history, policy implications, and practices of education in the United States.American Studies 110 - When topic is “Schooling in America”Asian American Studies 146 - Asian Americans and EducationChicano Studies 172 - Chicanos and the Educational SystemEducation 140AC - Literacy: Individual and Societal DevelopmentEducation 189 - Democracy and EducationSociology 113 - Sociology of EducationEducation 185 - Gender and Education in the AmericasEducation 190 - Current Issues in EducationEducation 190B - Unraveling Education: A Participatory InquiryThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration explores American attitudes about healthcare and the development of institutions for healthcare. N.B. For entry into some of these courses, the student may need to take preparatory lower-division coursework.Anthropology 115 - Introduction to Medical AnthropologyChicano Studies 176 - Chicanos and Health CareEconomics 157 - Health EconomicsPublic Health 113 - Campus/Community Health Impact ProgramPublic Health 131AC - Race, Ethnicity, and Health in AmericaSociology 155 - Sociology of Illness and MedicineAnthropology 114 - History of Anthropological ThoughtNutritional Science 166 - Nutrition in the CommunityPublic Health 103 - Drugs, Healthy, and SocietySociology 110 - Organizations and InstitutionsSociology 150 - Social PsychologyThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login“Nature in America” explores the historical, social, ideological, scientific, economic, and geographic dimensions of the natural environment in the United States. The student choosing this area of concentration studies the interaction of natural systems and social contexts over time.Anthropology 148 - Anthropology of the EnvironmentArt History C189 - The American Forest: Its Ecology, History, and RepresentationArt History 185A - American Art (1800-present)English 130B - American Literature: 1800-1865ESPM 161 - Environmental Philosophy and EthicHistory 120AC - American Environmental and Cultural HistoryAnthropology 129D - The Archaeology of Global ChangeEnvironmental Economics and Policy C102 - Natural Resource EconomicsEnvironmental Economics and Policy 131 - Globalization and the Natural EnvironmentEnvironmental Economics and Policy 162 - Economics of Water ResourcesEnvironmental Economics and Policy C180 - Ecological Economics in Historical ContextESPM 102C - Resource ManagementESPM 102D - Resource and Environmental PolicyESPM 116B - Range Ecology, Improvements, and ManagementESPM 117 - Urban Garden EcosystemsESPM 160AC - American Environmental and Cultural HistoryGeography 134 - Natural Hazards and ProblemsHistory 126B - The American WestHistory 127AC - CaliforniaLandscape Architecture 110 - Ecological AnalysisThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginAmerican Class StructuresAmerican People and PlacesAmerican WarfareChildhood in AmericaHousing, Community and Economic Development in the U.S.Identity and Representation in the U.S.Individual Learning and Education PsychologyU.S. Social MovementsThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration examines the interplay between social groups and power, inequality and social justice in the United States.African American Studies 121 - Black Political Life in the United StatesAnthropology 139 - Controlling ProcessesPeace and Conflict Studies 128AC - Human Rights and American CulturesPhilosophy 113AC - Philosophical Perspectives on Race and CulturePolitical Science 111AC - The Politics of DisplacementPolitical Science 138F - Immigrants, Citizenship, and the StateAfrican American Studies 124 - Political Philosophy of Martin Luther King, Jr.African American Studies 125 - History of the Civil Rights MovementAfrican American Studies 138 - Black NationalismAsian American Studies 125 - Contemporary Issues of Southeast Asian Refugees in the U.S.Asian American Studies 126 - Southeast Asian Migration & Community FormationAsian American Studies 141 - Law in the Asian American CommunityChicano Studies 110 - Latina/o Philosophy and Religious ThoughtLegal Studies 160 - Punishment, Culture, and SocietyNative American Studies 100 - Native American LawNative American Studies 101 - Native American Tribal GovernmentsPeace and Conflict Studies 154AC - Multicultural Conflict ResolutionPolitical Science 176 - The Unseen AmericaUGIS 116 - Disability, Identity, and Social MovementsThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginFocusing on the history of encounters between the various peoples who comprise the American nation, this area of concentration exploresthe migrations, settlements, contacts, contests, and exchanges that have shaped the cultural, political, social, and economic construction of the United States.African American Studies 116 - Slavery and American Life Before 1865Anthropology 122B - Culture Contact in North AmericaDemography 145AC - The American Immigrant ExperienceGeography 159AC - The Southern BorderLinguistics 155AC - Native American Meets the EuropeansPolitical Science 118AC - Three American CulturesAfrican American Studies 109 - Black and Male in American LifeAfrican American Studies 111 - Race, Class, and Gender in the United StatesAfrican American Studies 117 - African Americans in the Industrial Age, 1865-1970Anthropology 124AC - Hawaiian EthnohistoryAsian American Studies 121 - Chinese American HistoryAsian American Studies 122 - Japanese American HistoryAsian American Studies 123 - Korean American HistoryAsian American Studies 124 - Filipino American HistoryChicano Studies 150A - History of the Southwest: Spanish and Mexican PeriodChicano Studies 150B - History of the Southwest: Mexican-United States War to PresentChicano Studies 159 - Mexican ImmigrationEthnic Studies 135AC - Contemporary U.S. ImmigrationEthnic Studies 136 - Immigrant WomenEthnic Studies 147 - Women of Color in the United StatesEthnic Studies 150AC - People of Mixed Racial DescentHistory 122AC - Antebellum America: The Advent of Mass SocietyHistory 123 - Civil War and ReconstructionHistory 126B - The West in United States HistoryHistory 125 - History of African Americans and Race Relations in the United StatesHistory 137AC - The Repeopling of AmericaNative American Studies 175 - History of Native Americans in CaliforniaRhetoric 152AC - Race and Order in the New RepublicThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginCity and Regional Planning 110 Introduction to City PlanningCity and Regional Planning 118AC The Urban CommunityGeography 125 The American CityGeography 181 Urban Field StudyHistory 134A/B The Age of the CitySociology 125AC Urban SociologyAfrican American Studies 137 Multicultural CommunitiesAmerican Studies 102 When topic is New OrleansAmerican Studies 102 When topic is San Francisco and Los AngelesArchitecture 170A/B An Historical Survey of Architecture & UrbanismArchitecture 174AC San Francisco ArchitectureCity and Regional Planning 113B Community Economic DevelopmentEnvironmental Design 100 The City: Theories & Methods in Urban StudiesEnvironmental Design 169A/B American Cultural LandscapesThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration focuses on the history, changing structure and meaning of the family in American society.African American Studies 122African American Families in American SocietyChicano Studies 179Chicana/o FamiliesHistory C129Children Through History: Social Practices and Social WelfareLegal Studies 155Government and the FamilyPublic Policy C164Impact of Government Policies on Poor Children and FamiliesSociology 111Sociology of the FamilyAsian American Studies 150Gender and Generation in Asian American FamiliesDemography C126Social Consequences of Population DynamicsDemography C165Family and Household in Comparative PerspectiveGender and Women's Studies 120The History of American WomenHistory 131Social History of the United StatesPsychology 131Developmental PsychopathologyThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration explores the role of the United States outside of its national borders, focusing on both U.S. foreign policy and the flow of American peoples, ideas, and goods throughout the world.Asian American Studies 130 - Asian Americans and Foreign PolicyEnvironmental Economics and Policy 131 - Globalization and the Natural EnvironmentHistory 128 - Liberal Superpower: Reform and Political Economy in Postwar U.S. HistoryPeace and Conflict Studies 149 - Global Change and World OrderPolitical Science 126A - International Political EconomyPolitical Science 138G - National Success and Failure in the Age of a Global EconomyBusiness Administration 178 - Introduction to International BusinessChicano Studies 165 - Cuba, the United States and Cuban AmericansEthnic Studies C173 - Cultures of U.S. Imperialism: Spanish-American War of 1898Military Officers’ Education Program 145 - National Security Forces in Contemporary American SocietyPeace and Conflict Studies 119 - Topics in Peace and Conflict IssuesPeace and Conflict Studies 127 - Human Rights and Global PoliticsPolitical Science 124A - War!Political Science 127A - International LawPEIS 150 - Advanced Study in Political Economy of Industrial SocietyThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis area of concentration explores American consumer culture in relation to literature and performance.African American Studies 144 - Black Visual CultureAmerican Studies C174 - Visual AutobiographyEnglish C136 - When topic is “Consumer Culture in Post-Civil War America”Rhetoric 139AC - Autobiography and American IndividualismTheater 119 - Performance Theory: Asian/American Performance Across MediaTheater 121 - Performance and Culture - Performance and TelevisionAfrican American Studies 150B - African American Literature 1920 to PresentAfrican American Studies C151A - African American Plays from 1858 to 1959African American Studies C151B - Contemporary African American DramaAsian American Studies 171 - Asian Americans in Film and VideoAsian American Studies 172 - Asian American LiteratureGender and Women’s Studies C153B - Contemporary Images of African American Women in LiteratureMusic 130A/B/BM - African American MusicMusic 174F - Studies in African American MusicNative American Studies 152 - Native American LiteratureNative American Studies 158 - Native Americans and the CinemaNative American Studies 182 - Native American MusicTheater C132 - African American Dramatic LiteratureThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIN FALL 2017, THIS COURSE SATISFIES THE AMERICAN STUDIES 10 REQUIREMENT. The purpose of this course is to examine the many forms that the struggle of minorities can assume. The focus is on individual struggle and its outcome as reported and perceived by the individuals themselves. Members of three minority aggregates are considered: African Americans, Asian Americans (so called), and Chicano/Latino Americans. The choice of these three has to do with the different histories of members of these aggregrates. Such differences have produced somewhat different approaches to struggle.This course will introduce students to the interdisciplinary field of American Studies, taking “Food” as its central theme. We will explore the social history, political economy and "aesthetics" of eating and cooking in America.  Specific topics will include the development and importance of New World agriculture, the design of shopping and eating spaces, eco history, the objects we use in the kitchen, the use of food as a metaphor in literature and in popular culture, food service workers, ethnic foods, food advertising, food photography, fast food, the “slow” food movement, and food biographies. We will also consider the specific food culture of Berkeley, and explore the rise of the so-called Berkeley "gourmet ghetto." Course Goals:  This course is meant to enable you to think and do research as an interdisciplinary scholar, specifically to give you the tools to do readings of a literary text, a painting, a common object, a film, a space.  You will also learn the basics of conducting an interview, drawing a floorplan, recording and analyzing behaviors.  You will practice historical research—gathering and evaluating evidence--as well as practice the skills involved in finding a thesis and arguing it persuasively.  IN FALL 2017, THIS COURSE SATISFIES THE AMERICAN STUDIES 10 REQUIREMENT. This course is about the history of the Hollywood "Dream Factory," focusing on both parts of that phrase. We will examine the historical and geographical development of the motion picture industry from the rise of the studio system to the "new" entertainment economy of the 1980's, as we think about the way films have constructed powerful and productive fantasies about the boundaries between public and private, work and play, commerce and art, fantasy and reality.  Our topics will include the history of labor in the culture industry, the implications of shifts in the spatial organization of film production, and the effects of Hollywood on the larger politics of southern California.  We will also discuss the way Hollywood has framed its own history by viewing a number of "movies about movies," including Sullivan's Travels, Singin' in the Rain, Sunset Boulevard, and The PlayerThis course explores the social, cultural, political, and personal awakenings in the literature, art, and music of the Negro Renaissance or the New Negro Movement, known as the Harlem Renaissance.  This is remembered as a time (roughly 1918-1930) when, in the midst of legal segregation and increasing anti-Black mob violence, Black American writers, artists, philosophers, activists, and musicians, congregating in New York City’s Harlem, reclaimed the right to represent themselves in a wide range of artistic forms and activist movements.  This course will focus on the forces that led to this "renaissance" as well as those that fueled it.  Primary texts for this course may include Jean Toomer, Cane; Zora Neale Hurston, Their Eyes Were Watching God; George Schuyler, Black No More; Nella Larsen, Passing; poetry by Langston Hughes; and works by Claude McKay, Alain Locke, Jessie Fauset, W.E.B. Du Bois, James Weldon Johnson, Anne Spencer, Alice Dunbar-Nelson, Augusta Savage, Duke Ellington, and others.Linking the battlefields of Europe and Asia to the factories and movie theaters of San Francisco and New York City, this course takes up the cultural and social history of World War II (1931-1945).  World War II was the most destructive war in the history of humanity, killing some 60-80 million people.  It also shattered the old European colonial order and transformed the US into the most powerful country in the world.  The war remains the source of our deepest fears of genocide and nuclear annihilation.  Yet Americans believe World War II to be “The Good War” and we revere its heroes as “The Greatest Generation.”  This class takes a global approach to WWII by focusing on three primary combatants: Nazi Germany, Imperial Japan and the United States.  Consequently, this course focuses explicitly on the role of race and racism in the origins and conduct of the war.   As an American Studies class, we take an interdisciplinary approach to history, reading a range of original sources from propaganda cartoons to oral histories, war photography to experimental fiction.  So what was this war? What did Americans see and do there? And what did that doing do to us?   This course surveys the history of California and the American West from the mid-nineteenth century to the dawn of the twenty-first century. It will situate this state and regional history within the relevant currents of global history, which have profoundly shaped and been shaped by California and the American West. We will pay particular heed to those elements of Californian and western history that are typically associated with the state’s and region’s distinctiveness as a shifting region on the national map, potent and protean symbol in the national (and, often, international) imagination, and catalyst of world historical developments from the Gold Rush and the global guano trade it sparked in the mid-nineteenth century, to the rise of Hollywood in the early twentieth century, to the development and deployment of atomic weapons in the mid-twentieth century, to the emergence of Silicon Valley technological innovation and New Gilded Age income polarization in the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries.SEMINAR COURSE -- PERMISSION OF FACULTY ADVISOR OR INSTRUCTOR IS REQUIRED TO ENROLL.We all pass by ugly buildings everyday, often in silent, unconscious protest, or register beautiful ones fleetingly, alas, through a windshield. This turning away leaves us unprepared to judge, and more importantly, to demand better. Yet architecture is the most public of arts. We all use it everyday and this makes us all arbiters of it. The course aims to empower students to seek out their own critical voices in writing about their surroundings. It will help students sharpen their eye and to show them how to lay out plainly, but with sophistication, the ramifications of various kinds of interventions in the built environment. The campus will be the course's quarry. Students will tour Berkeley's buildings and landscape and read them against both architectural criticism and essays by authors such as John McPhee, John Updike, Christopher Hitchens, Sue Allison, Wendell Berry, and Patricia Hampl.  We will consider the representation of New Orleans in four related formats: (1) historical monograph, (2) folklore collection, (3) jazz autobiography, and (4) cinematic documentary. Our premise is that New Orleans is stranger than fiction. Weekly writing, two essays, two midterm exams, final exam.This course surveys the history of American landscape architecture since 1850 including the rise of the public parks movement, the development of park systems, the establishment of the national parks, the landscape of the Progressive Era, suburbs, and the modernist landscape.  The survey encompasses urban open spaces, conservation landscapes, urban design, environmental planning, and gardens.  It reviews the cultural and social contexts which have shaped and informed landscape architecture in the United States since the advent of the public parks movement, as well as the aesthetic precepts, environmental concerns, horticultural practices, and technological innovations of American landscapes.***NOTE: In order to receive honors in American Studies, a student must have an overall GPA of 3.51, and a GPA of 3.65 for all courses taken in completion of the major (upper and lower division).   Students should discuss with their major faculty adviser the preparation of a bibliography and a brief description of their proposed honors thesis and their eligibility to enroll in honors, based on GPA, the semester before they plan to enroll in H195.  They also must secure a faculty adviser from an appropriate field who will agree to direct the honors thesis (the "honors thesis adviser").  THE FACULTY ADVISER’S AGREEMENT MUST BE SUBMITTED TO COURSE INSTRUCTOR NO LATER THAN THE 2ND WEEK OF CLASSES.  THIS IS AN HONORS SEMINAR. PERMISSION OF FACULTY ADVISOR OR INSTRUCTOR IS REQUIRED TO ENROLL. Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History presents a top-down (political and legal history), bottom-up (social and cultural history), and comparative (by race and ethnicity as well as region) view of America's struggles for racial equality from roughly World War II until the present. Beginning with the onset of World War II, America experienced not a singular, unitary Civil Rights Movement as is typically portrayed in standard textbook accounts and the collective memory but rather a variety of contemporaneous civil rights and their related social movements. These movements, moreover, did not follow a tidy chronological-geographic trajectory from South to North to West, nor were their participants merely black and white. Instead, from their inception, America's civil rights movements unfolded both beyond the South and beyond black and white. ";Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History"; endeavors to equip students with a greater appreciation for the complexity of America's civil rights and social movements history, a complexity that neither a black / white nor nonwhite / white framework adequately captures. Put another way, ";Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History"; will examine how the problem of the color line which W.E.B. DuBois deemed to be in 1903 the problem of the twentieth century might better be viewed as a problem of color lines. If America's demographics are increasingly beyond black and white, if ";the classic American dilemma has now become many dilemmas of race and ethnicity,"; as President Clinton put it in the late 1990s, if color lines now loom as the problem of the 21st century, then a course on America's civil rights and social movements past may very well offer a glimpse into America's civil rights and social movements present and future. .   FRESHMAN SEMINAR. FRESHMEN ONLY!The idea for the Federalist papers was Alexander Hamilton’s, and he wrote most of the papers, 51 of the 85. Hamilton invited James Madison (who became the fourth President of the U.S.) and John Jay to write the others.  Hamilton and Madison offer various arguments to try to convince citizens that the newly designed Constitution for a federal government should be accepted and ratified by the state of New York and beyond.   Do they convince you? As Jay notes in #2, this new constitution is to be “recommended” and debated.  Such a plan for a federal constitution for a free people who understand the need of a government has to be argued for, because there was already a government of the Continental Congress that seemed to some as working very well.  Discussion and debate belong intimately to such a republic, esp. a liberal republic. We cannot read and discuss all of the 85 papers, but we can look carefully at a few of them and engage in discussion and debate.  Obviously, the papers deal with serious and controversial issues. I want and expect discussion all of the time in every class.  Students will be evaluated on attendance and participation in the discussion.  There will be a short paper (5 pages) due at the end of the class. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginTHIS IS AN HONORS SEMINAR. PERMISSION OF FACULTY ADVISOR OR INSTRUCTOR IS REQUIRED TO ENROLL. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIN FALL 2017, THIS COURSE SATISFIES THE AMERICAN STUDIES 10 REQUIREMENT. The purpose of this course is to examine the many forms that the struggle of minorities can assume. The focus is on individual struggle and its outcome as reported and perceived by the individuals themselves. Members of three minority aggregates are considered: African Americans, Asian Americans (so called), and Chicano/Latino Americans. The choice of these three has to do with the different histories of members of these aggregrates. Such differences have produced somewhat different approaches to struggle.This course will introduce students to the interdisciplinary field of American Studies, taking “Food” as its central theme. We will explore the social history, political economy and "aesthetics" of eating and cooking in America.  Specific topics will include the development and importance of New World agriculture, the design of shopping and eating spaces, eco history, the objects we use in the kitchen, the use of food as a metaphor in literature and in popular culture, food service workers, ethnic foods, food advertising, food photography, fast food, the “slow” food movement, and food biographies. We will also consider the specific food culture of Berkeley, and explore the rise of the so-called Berkeley "gourmet ghetto." Course Goals:  This course is meant to enable you to think and do research as an interdisciplinary scholar, specifically to give you the tools to do readings of a literary text, a painting, a common object, a film, a space.  You will also learn the basics of conducting an interview, drawing a floorplan, recording and analyzing behaviors.  You will practice historical research—gathering and evaluating evidence--as well as practice the skills involved in finding a thesis and arguing it persuasively.  IN FALL 2017, THIS COURSE SATISFIES THE AMERICAN STUDIES 10 REQUIREMENT. This course is about the history of the Hollywood "Dream Factory," focusing on both parts of that phrase. We will examine the historical and geographical development of the motion picture industry from the rise of the studio system to the "new" entertainment economy of the 1980's, as we think about the way films have constructed powerful and productive fantasies about the boundaries between public and private, work and play, commerce and art, fantasy and reality.  Our topics will include the history of labor in the culture industry, the implications of shifts in the spatial organization of film production, and the effects of Hollywood on the larger politics of southern California.  We will also discuss the way Hollywood has framed its own history by viewing a number of "movies about movies," including Sullivan's Travels, Singin' in the Rain, Sunset Boulevard, and The PlayerThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginFRESHMAN SEMINAR. FRESHMEN ONLY!The idea for the Federalist papers was Alexander Hamilton’s, and he wrote most of the papers, 51 of the 85. Hamilton invited James Madison (who became the fourth President of the U.S.) and John Jay to write the others.  Hamilton and Madison offer various arguments to try to convince citizens that the newly designed Constitution for a federal government should be accepted and ratified by the state of New York and beyond.   Do they convince you? As Jay notes in #2, this new constitution is to be “recommended” and debated.  Such a plan for a federal constitution for a free people who understand the need of a government has to be argued for, because there was already a government of the Continental Congress that seemed to some as working very well.  Discussion and debate belong intimately to such a republic, esp. a liberal republic. We cannot read and discuss all of the 85 papers, but we can look carefully at a few of them and engage in discussion and debate.  Obviously, the papers deal with serious and controversial issues. I want and expect discussion all of the time in every class.  Students will be evaluated on attendance and participation in the discussion.  There will be a short paper (5 pages) due at the end of the class. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login This course surveys the history of California and the American West from the mid-nineteenth century to the dawn of the twenty-first century. It will situate this state and regional history within the relevant currents of global history, which have profoundly shaped and been shaped by California and the American West. We will pay particular heed to those elements of Californian and western history that are typically associated with the state’s and region’s distinctiveness as a shifting region on the national map, potent and protean symbol in the national (and, often, international) imagination, and catalyst of world historical developments from the Gold Rush and the global guano trade it sparked in the mid-nineteenth century, to the rise of Hollywood in the early twentieth century, to the development and deployment of atomic weapons in the mid-twentieth century, to the emergence of Silicon Valley technological innovation and New Gilded Age income polarization in the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries.SEMINAR COURSE -- PERMISSION OF FACULTY ADVISOR OR INSTRUCTOR IS REQUIRED TO ENROLL.We all pass by ugly buildings everyday, often in silent, unconscious protest, or register beautiful ones fleetingly, alas, through a windshield. This turning away leaves us unprepared to judge, and more importantly, to demand better. Yet architecture is the most public of arts. We all use it everyday and this makes us all arbiters of it. The course aims to empower students to seek out their own critical voices in writing about their surroundings. It will help students sharpen their eye and to show them how to lay out plainly, but with sophistication, the ramifications of various kinds of interventions in the built environment. The campus will be the course's quarry. Students will tour Berkeley's buildings and landscape and read them against both architectural criticism and essays by authors such as John McPhee, John Updike, Christopher Hitchens, Sue Allison, Wendell Berry, and Patricia Hampl.  We will consider the representation of New Orleans in four related formats: (1) historical monograph, (2) folklore collection, (3) jazz autobiography, and (4) cinematic documentary. Our premise is that New Orleans is stranger than fiction. Weekly writing, two essays, two midterm exams, final exam.This course surveys the history of American landscape architecture since 1850 including the rise of the public parks movement, the development of park systems, the establishment of the national parks, the landscape of the Progressive Era, suburbs, and the modernist landscape.  The survey encompasses urban open spaces, conservation landscapes, urban design, environmental planning, and gardens.  It reviews the cultural and social contexts which have shaped and informed landscape architecture in the United States since the advent of the public parks movement, as well as the aesthetic precepts, environmental concerns, horticultural practices, and technological innovations of American landscapes.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login***NOTE: In order to receive honors in American Studies, a student must have an overall GPA of 3.51, and a GPA of 3.65 for all courses taken in completion of the major (upper and lower division).   Students should discuss with their major faculty adviser the preparation of a bibliography and a brief description of their proposed honors thesis and their eligibility to enroll in honors, based on GPA, the semester before they plan to enroll in H195.  They also must secure a faculty adviser from an appropriate field who will agree to direct the honors thesis (the "honors thesis adviser").  THE FACULTY ADVISER’S AGREEMENT MUST BE SUBMITTED TO COURSE INSTRUCTOR NO LATER THAN THE 2ND WEEK OF CLASSES.  The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginCivil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History presents a top-down (political and legal history), bottom-up (social and cultural history), and comparative (by race and ethnicity as well as region) view of America's struggles for racial equality from roughly World War II until the present. Beginning with the onset of World War II, America experienced not a singular, unitary Civil Rights Movement as is typically portrayed in standard textbook accounts and the collective memory but rather a variety of contemporaneous civil rights and their related social movements. These movements, moreover, did not follow a tidy chronological-geographic trajectory from South to North to West, nor were their participants merely black and white. Instead, from their inception, America's civil rights movements unfolded both beyond the South and beyond black and white. ";Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History"; endeavors to equip students with a greater appreciation for the complexity of America's civil rights and social movements history, a complexity that neither a black / white nor nonwhite / white framework adequately captures. Put another way, ";Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. History"; will examine how the problem of the color line which W.E.B. DuBois deemed to be in 1903 the problem of the twentieth century might better be viewed as a problem of color lines. If America's demographics are increasingly beyond black and white, if ";the classic American dilemma has now become many dilemmas of race and ethnicity,"; as President Clinton put it in the late 1990s, if color lines now loom as the problem of the 21st century, then a course on America's civil rights and social movements past may very well offer a glimpse into America's civil rights and social movements present and future. .   The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis course explores the social, cultural, political, and personal awakenings in the literature, art, and music of the Negro Renaissance or the New Negro Movement, known as the Harlem Renaissance.  This is remembered as a time (roughly 1918-1930) when, in the midst of legal segregation and increasing anti-Black mob violence, Black American writers, artists, philosophers, activists, and musicians, congregating in New York City’s Harlem, reclaimed the right to represent themselves in a wide range of artistic forms and activist movements.  This course will focus on the forces that led to this "renaissance" as well as those that fueled it.  Primary texts for this course may include Jean Toomer, Cane; Zora Neale Hurston, Their Eyes Were Watching God; George Schuyler, Black No More; Nella Larsen, Passing; poetry by Langston Hughes; and works by Claude McKay, Alain Locke, Jessie Fauset, W.E.B. Du Bois, James Weldon Johnson, Anne Spencer, Alice Dunbar-Nelson, Augusta Savage, Duke Ellington, and others.Linking the battlefields of Europe and Asia to the factories and movie theaters of San Francisco and New York City, this course takes up the cultural and social history of World War II (1931-1945).  World War II was the most destructive war in the history of humanity, killing some 60-80 million people.  It also shattered the old European colonial order and transformed the US into the most powerful country in the world.  The war remains the source of our deepest fears of genocide and nuclear annihilation.  Yet Americans believe World War II to be “The Good War” and we revere its heroes as “The Greatest Generation.”  This class takes a global approach to WWII by focusing on three primary combatants: Nazi Germany, Imperial Japan and the United States.  Consequently, this course focuses explicitly on the role of race and racism in the origins and conduct of the war.   As an American Studies class, we take an interdisciplinary approach to history, reading a range of original sources from propaganda cartoons to oral histories, war photography to experimental fiction.  So what was this war? What did Americans see and do there? And what did that doing do to us?  The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis course will examine significant aspects of the everyday and the ordinary in American life.  Through the analysis of multiple forms—from front porches to closets, from board games to playgrounds, from the remembered South to the end of the world, from the mixtape to the music video—this course provides an introduction to and a “toolkit” for the interdisciplinary study of American culture.Building on concepts and methods of inquiry which “define” American Studies, this course will emphasize analyzing cultural meaning, knowledge, and values through the examination of a variety of cultural situations and productions—including the values, patterns of behavior, and even objects that most of us take for granted—in order to explore how individuals, groups, and institutions interact through the different ways they give “meaning” to experience.  Through close reading of diverse texts, we will work towards developing an approach that enables us to analyze critically the process involved in the ongoing creation, maintenance, and transmission of cultural meaning within American society.  A student’s goal in this course is to learn close reading, critical thinking, and writing skills that will enable her or him to be a self-conscious and thoughtful investigator of American culture.1948 was the year that America—after the Great depression, after the Second World War, after sixteen years of the all but revolutionary experiment in national government of the New Deal—let out its collective breath. Finally, that great exhaling said, we can go back to real life but what was “real life?” Centering on 1948, but moving a few years back and a few years forward, this class will explore the sometimes instantly celebrated, sometimes all but subterranean experiments in American culture and literature that tried to raise and answer that question. The artists, writers, filmmakers, painters, musicians, poets, and social theorists who emerged to tell that national story included Miles Davis and Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg and Ross McDonald, J.D. Salinger and Ray Bradbury, David Riesman and Marshall McLuhan. This course will follow the traces of this explosion as well as contextualize the American that was being born. It will include films, popular music, Life Magazine, advertising culture and television as well as novels, poetry and discussions of visual images.The Progressive era saw waves of new immigrant communities to urban centers, dramatic shifts in industrial manufacturing technology, and war. As such what it meant to be an American also shifted toward an emphasis on strenuous outdoor work, collective investment in morality, and new standards around food and nutrition. This course considers how the culture, politics and policies of this time reinforced a racialized standard for the ideal American body. We will investigate the historical contexts that give rise to the proper diet, the role of the USDA, and our modern concepts of nutrition. Importantly, we will also consider how these arise in conversation with the institutionalization of scientific racism, representations of the changing ethnic food landscape in America’s nascent urban centers, and the construction of the unhealthy and immoral “other.” We will draw from primary sources like dietary reports, USDA pamphlets, packaged food labels, and health and lifestyle manuals to understand the material world of Americans negotiating their food, classed, and raced lives. This course can be used for TIME, PLACE, or PRE-1900 major requirements, depending on the research you do for the course.In this course, we will examine the indigenous history, literature, and art of California, with an emphasis on northern California. We will read primary works by Native California writers, look at the artwork of Native California artists, and learn about the history and cultures of indigenous people in California. In addition, we will schedule visits to the archives of the Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology and the Bancroft Library here on campus as well as historic sites and cultural institutions locally. We may also go on a field trip or two.This course examines half a century of life in the United States (roughly from the War of 1812 until the secession of the Southern states), focusing on race relations, westward expansion, class formation, immigration, religion, sexuality, popular culture, and everyday life. Assigned readings will consist largely of first-person narratives in which women and men of a range of ethnic and cultural backgrounds construct distinctive visions of life in the new nation. This course takes our home state of California as the site through which to explore how cultural systems of performance help shape social systems of race.  We will consider the role a range of performance forms--theater, film, pageants, political protests--have played in shaping California’s unique cultural and racial topography.  From the theatricalization of Chinatown in Rodgers’ and Hammerstein’s Flower Drum Song to that of urban riots in Twilight, from the staging of farmworkers' rights to the configuration of the region by Disney in its state-themed park, performance strategies have been used by a variety of agents towards a wide range of social and political goals.  We will use the histories of play productions, films, and para-theatrical performances to interrogate conceptions of California as a “post-racial” state.    As longstanding metaphors in American history and culture, “Wall Street” and “Main Street” typically refer to streets that intersect at right angles and places that represent the antithesis of each other.  In this rendering, Wall Street is home to nefarious big banks and greedy financiers, while Main Street is home to wholesome “mom-and-pop” shops patronized by ordinary people of modest means. What’s good for one is not good for the other. This course, which will be co-taught by a historian and corporate law professor, will examine critical junctures in the intersection of Wall Street and Main Street in American history and culture, how and why Wall Street and Main Street have been understood to point in opposite directions, the extent to which that understanding makes sense, and how and why the relationship between Wall Street and Main Street has evolved over time.Fom Disney to Las Vegas, Americans frequently encounter environments that are self-consciously themed, rather than unconsciously developed. These spaces have been dismissed as fake, artificial, evidence of postmodern alienation, even of the homogenizing effects of the global economy. This course proposes to expand the repertoire of themed environments in an effort to reevaluate their meaning in American life. Close attention will be paid to the obvious sites of theming: world’s fairs, consumer environments, and suburbs, but also to how theming has penetrated into film, advertising, “nature,” leisure, historic preservation, and museums.This course can be used for TIME, PLACE, or PRE-1900 major requirements, depending on the research you do for the course.In this course, we will examine the indigenous history, literature, and art of California, with an emphasis on northern California. We will read primary works by Native California writers, look at the artwork of Native California artists, and learn about the history and cultures of indigenous people in California. In addition, we will schedule visits to the archives of the Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology and the Bancroft Library here on campus as well as historic sites and cultural institutions locally. We may also go on a field trip or two.The Progressive era saw waves of new immigrant communities to urban centers, dramatic shifts in industrial manufacturing technology, and war. As such what it meant to be an American also shifted toward an emphasis on strenuous outdoor work, collective investment in morality, and new standards around food and nutrition. This course considers how the culture, politics and policies of this time reinforced a racialized standard for the ideal American body. We will investigate the historical contexts that give rise to the proper diet, the role of the USDA, and our modern concepts of nutrition. Importantly, we will also consider how these arise in conversation with the institutionalization of scientific racism, representations of the changing ethnic food landscape in America’s nascent urban centers, and the construction of the unhealthy and immoral “other.” We will draw from primary sources like dietary reports, USDA pamphlets, packaged food labels, and health and lifestyle manuals to understand the material world of Americans negotiating their food, classed, and raced lives. This course can be used for TIME, PLACE, or PRE-1900 major requirements, depending on the research you do for the course.In this course, we will examine the indigenous history, literature, and art of California, with an emphasis on northern California. We will read primary works by Native California writers, look at the artwork of Native California artists, and learn about the history and cultures of indigenous people in California. In addition, we will schedule visits to the archives of the Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology and the Bancroft Library here on campus as well as historic sites and cultural institutions locally. We may also go on a field trip or two.This course examines half a century of life in the United States (roughly from the War of 1812 until the secession of the Southern states), focusing on race relations, westward expansion, class formation, immigration, religion, sexuality, popular culture, and everyday life. Assigned readings will consist largely of first-person narratives in which women and men of a range of ethnic and cultural backgrounds construct distinctive visions of life in the new nation. Instructor approval required to enroll.***NOTE: In order to receive honors in American Studies, a student must have an overall GPA of 3.51, and a GPA of 3.65 for all courses taken in completion of the major (upper and lower division).   Students should discuss their eligibiliity with an American Studies faculty advisor. NOTE: Honors seminar. Requires consent of instructor and/or approval of faculty advisor to enroll.This project-based course is three courses rolled into one, all oriented toward the American Studies-based digital project “The Berkeley Revolution”. (Any interested students should browse the site at revolution.berkeley.edu to get a sense of what a previous set of students accomplished.)First, the course delves into the history of the 1970s Bay Area, which was an unusually fertile cultural seedbed: so many features of contemporary life — from the cappuccinos we drink to the laptop computers we use to write and think — were incubated in it. The region was ground-zero for the revolution in cooking known as “California cuisine”; ground-zero for new forms of spiritual practice and religious organization; ground-zero for the technological utopianism represented by the Whole Earth Catalog and the computer clubs that produced the first desktop computer; and ground-zero for social movements such as women’s liberation, black liberation, gay liberation, and the environmental movement, and for the new cultural forms that were entangled with them, such as disco, punk, and ‘alternative comix’.Second, the course offers students an introduction to the practice of archival research. Our class will explore specific archives at Cal, such as the Chez Panisse Collection, the Berkeley Free Church Collection, the Social Protest Collection, and the Disability Rights and Defense Fund Collection. Students will be asked to explore these sorts of “official” archives, and will be invited, if they’re interested, to curate their own “unofficial” archives. You will be approaching these collections with the open eyes of historians looking at fresh documents, and with the goal of plumbing these documents for the insights and stories that they yield.Third, the course will give students the experience of creating digital history projects of their own, as part of the larger “Berkeley Revolution” project. Students will work, collaboratively, to create both digital exhibitions and multi-media essays that spring out of the primary research they do. NOTE: Honors seminar. Requires consent of instructor and/or approval of faculty advisor to enroll.This course is an intensive reading seminar in which we will use a range of texts to trace how American writers, photographers, painters, filmmakers, activists, engineers, architects, and city planners have imagined a variety of futures.  Topics of consideration may include but are not limited to Afrofuturism; robots, robotics, and artificial intelligence; the gleaming city of tomorrow; utopian communities; and dystopia, prophecy, and apocalypse.  Texts may include but are not limited to W.E.B. Du Bois’s “The Comet;” Octavia Butler’s Parable series; Ava Duvernay’s Selma; Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Herland; Michael Crichton’s Westworld; N.K. Jemisin’s The Fifth Season; and clipping.’s Splendor & Misery.This course uses film to investigate the central role of race in American culture. Through the study of film history, from silent film of the Jim Crow era to the digitized dystopias of the 21st century, this course explores the relationship between art and politics, race and representation. Looking at both Hollywood and independent cinema, the course charts the continuities and varieties of representations of race in cinema, considering the overlapping histories of African Americans, whiteness and ethnicity, American Indians, Mexican Americans, the “Third World” and Multiculturalism in film. Films screened include: The Birth of a Nation (1915), The Jazz Singer (1927), Salt of the Earth (1953), The Searchers (1956), and Imitation of Life (1958). NOTE: AS majors have priority for this course. When President Calvin Coolidge declared in 1925 that “the chief business of the American people is business,” he was not making a historical argument, though it would have been a defensible one. Nearly a century earlier, French visitor, Alexis de Tocqueville, made a similar observation. Indeed, America was colonized by joint-stock corporations! Understanding the history of American business can therefore unlock a great deal about America itself. How did capital exchange become capitalism and how did capitalism affect American lives? How have capitalist markets been constructed socially and legally? What has been the historical relationship between capitalism and gender, race, freedom, and inequality? We will explore these questions on a chronological journey from seventeenth-century cotton trading to twenty-first century foreclosure.Taking as a point of departure specific exemplary houses, both vernacular and high-style architectural forms are studied from the perspectives of the history of style, of technology, sustainability, and of social use.  We look at space (interior space, the relationship of structure to site, the relationship of site to environmental and economic context), and we look at interior design, decorative arts, and infrastructure.  We consider materials as well as plan, elevation, and expressive form.  Both the class as a whole and the student research projects take a case-study approach.  Considering examples from the 17th and 18th centuries as well as from the 19th and 20th, the class will provide students with a broad background in habitation in what is now the United States, as well as experience in hands-on original research concerning the built environment today.  While much of our attention will focus on unknown builders, we will also study some of the best-known houses (and most widely-dispersed models).  Architects whose work we will consider include Thomas Jefferson, Frank Lloyd Wright, Charles and Henry Greene. One all day Saturday field trip.The place of the actor in the theatrical event has evolved over the centuries, and some of the most revolutionary changes in the US took place in the 1960s, when society itself was undergoing dramatic upheaval. Theater and performance became urgent sites of political and social commentary. The avant-garde and experimental theater movement that began in the late 1950s and extended into the 1970s drastically reconsidered the theater’s role in society, its relationship to the audience, and how acting itself should function. Theater collectives formed, devising works together; rigorous attention was given to movement and voice; theatrical space was re-imagined; minority voices took center stage. Many theater makers were activists for these new approaches, among them Joseph Chaikin, founder of the Open Theater, whose seminal 1972 book The Presence of the Actor, gives this class its name. Though striking and unsettling performances like the Open Theater’s The Serpent, or the Living Theater’s Paradise Now! may have seemed to arrive out of nowhere, seeds had been planted by the politically, artistically and methodologically provocative work of European theorists such as Brecht, Artaud, and Grotowski, who saw acting in entirely new ways. Taken together with American avant-garde experiments beginning in the 1930s by the likes of John Cage and Merce Cunningham, which questioned the nature of art itself, these practitioners laid the groundwork for twentieth century innovation in western theater and performance. They blurred lines between genres, introduced new kinds of voices and techniques, and challenged once comfortable barriers between character and self, performer and audience, stage and street, text and object, narrative and abstraction, art and real life. Collectives, and individual playwrights and performers, such as the Living Theater and the Open Theater, the San Francisco Mime Troupe, El Teatro Campesino, the Wooster Group, At the Foot of the Mountain, Amiri Baraka, Meredith Monk and Rachel Rosenthal – each driven by new and particular priorities on theater, culture, and the performative act – altered our understanding of the theatrical experience and its relationship to the world at large. Weekly readings, screenings, lectures, and group discussions will be used to grasp this fascinating period, and help students understand how the country’s social and political history, and these aesthetic innovations, were inseparable. A mid-term, final exam, and research paper will be required. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginNOTE: Honors seminar. Requires consent of instructor and/or approval of faculty advisor to enroll.This project-based course is three courses rolled into one, all oriented toward the American Studies-based digital project “The Berkeley Revolution”. (Any interested students should browse the site at revolution.berkeley.edu to get a sense of what a previous set of students accomplished.)First, the course delves into the history of the 1970s Bay Area, which was an unusually fertile cultural seedbed: so many features of contemporary life — from the cappuccinos we drink to the laptop computers we use to write and think — were incubated in it. The region was ground-zero for the revolution in cooking known as “California cuisine”; ground-zero for new forms of spiritual practice and religious organization; ground-zero for the technological utopianism represented by the Whole Earth Catalog and the computer clubs that produced the first desktop computer; and ground-zero for social movements such as women’s liberation, black liberation, gay liberation, and the environmental movement, and for the new cultural forms that were entangled with them, such as disco, punk, and ‘alternative comix’.Second, the course offers students an introduction to the practice of archival research. Our class will explore specific archives at Cal, such as the Chez Panisse Collection, the Berkeley Free Church Collection, the Social Protest Collection, and the Disability Rights and Defense Fund Collection. Students will be asked to explore these sorts of “official” archives, and will be invited, if they’re interested, to curate their own “unofficial” archives. You will be approaching these collections with the open eyes of historians looking at fresh documents, and with the goal of plumbing these documents for the insights and stories that they yield.Third, the course will give students the experience of creating digital history projects of their own, as part of the larger “Berkeley Revolution” project. Students will work, collaboratively, to create both digital exhibitions and multi-media essays that spring out of the primary research they do. NOTE: Honors seminar. Requires consent of instructor and/or approval of faculty advisor to enroll.This course is an intensive reading seminar in which we will use a range of texts to trace how American writers, photographers, painters, filmmakers, activists, engineers, architects, and city planners have imagined a variety of futures.  Topics of consideration may include but are not limited to Afrofuturism; robots, robotics, and artificial intelligence; the gleaming city of tomorrow; utopian communities; and dystopia, prophecy, and apocalypse.  Texts may include but are not limited to W.E.B. Du Bois’s “The Comet;” Octavia Butler’s Parable series; Ava Duvernay’s Selma; Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Herland; Michael Crichton’s Westworld; N.K. Jemisin’s The Fifth Season; and clipping.’s Splendor & Misery.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis course will examine significant aspects of the everyday and the ordinary in American life.  Through the analysis of multiple forms—from front porches to closets, from board games to playgrounds, from the remembered South to the end of the world, from the mixtape to the music video—this course provides an introduction to and a “toolkit” for the interdisciplinary study of American culture.Building on concepts and methods of inquiry which “define” American Studies, this course will emphasize analyzing cultural meaning, knowledge, and values through the examination of a variety of cultural situations and productions—including the values, patterns of behavior, and even objects that most of us take for granted—in order to explore how individuals, groups, and institutions interact through the different ways they give “meaning” to experience.  Through close reading of diverse texts, we will work towards developing an approach that enables us to analyze critically the process involved in the ongoing creation, maintenance, and transmission of cultural meaning within American society.  A student’s goal in this course is to learn close reading, critical thinking, and writing skills that will enable her or him to be a self-conscious and thoughtful investigator of American culture.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis course takes our home state of California as the site through which to explore how cultural systems of performance help shape social systems of race.  We will consider the role a range of performance forms--theater, film, pageants, political protests--have played in shaping California’s unique cultural and racial topography.  From the theatricalization of Chinatown in Rodgers’ and Hammerstein’s Flower Drum Song to that of urban riots in Twilight, from the staging of farmworkers' rights to the configuration of the region by Disney in its state-themed park, performance strategies have been used by a variety of agents towards a wide range of social and political goals.  We will use the histories of play productions, films, and para-theatrical performances to interrogate conceptions of California as a “post-racial” state.    As longstanding metaphors in American history and culture, “Wall Street” and “Main Street” typically refer to streets that intersect at right angles and places that represent the antithesis of each other.  In this rendering, Wall Street is home to nefarious big banks and greedy financiers, while Main Street is home to wholesome “mom-and-pop” shops patronized by ordinary people of modest means. What’s good for one is not good for the other. This course, which will be co-taught by a historian and corporate law professor, will examine critical junctures in the intersection of Wall Street and Main Street in American history and culture, how and why Wall Street and Main Street have been understood to point in opposite directions, the extent to which that understanding makes sense, and how and why the relationship between Wall Street and Main Street has evolved over time.Fom Disney to Las Vegas, Americans frequently encounter environments that are self-consciously themed, rather than unconsciously developed. These spaces have been dismissed as fake, artificial, evidence of postmodern alienation, even of the homogenizing effects of the global economy. This course proposes to expand the repertoire of themed environments in an effort to reevaluate their meaning in American life. Close attention will be paid to the obvious sites of theming: world’s fairs, consumer environments, and suburbs, but also to how theming has penetrated into film, advertising, “nature,” leisure, historic preservation, and museums.This course can be used for TIME, PLACE, or PRE-1900 major requirements, depending on the research you do for the course.In this course, we will examine the indigenous history, literature, and art of California, with an emphasis on northern California. We will read primary works by Native California writers, look at the artwork of Native California artists, and learn about the history and cultures of indigenous people in California. In addition, we will schedule visits to the archives of the Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology and the Bancroft Library here on campus as well as historic sites and cultural institutions locally. We may also go on a field trip or two.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginInstructor approval required to enroll.***NOTE: In order to receive honors in American Studies, a student must have an overall GPA of 3.51, and a GPA of 3.65 for all courses taken in completion of the major (upper and lower division).   Students should discuss their eligibiliity with an American Studies faculty advisor. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThis course uses film to investigate the central role of race in American culture. Through the study of film history, from silent film of the Jim Crow era to the digitized dystopias of the 21st century, this course explores the relationship between art and politics, race and representation. Looking at both Hollywood and independent cinema, the course charts the continuities and varieties of representations of race in cinema, considering the overlapping histories of African Americans, whiteness and ethnicity, American Indians, Mexican Americans, the “Third World” and Multiculturalism in film. Films screened include: The Birth of a Nation (1915), The Jazz Singer (1927), Salt of the Earth (1953), The Searchers (1956), and Imitation of Life (1958). NOTE: AS majors have priority for this course. When President Calvin Coolidge declared in 1925 that “the chief business of the American people is business,” he was not making a historical argument, though it would have been a defensible one. Nearly a century earlier, French visitor, Alexis de Tocqueville, made a similar observation. Indeed, America was colonized by joint-stock corporations! Understanding the history of American business can therefore unlock a great deal about America itself. How did capital exchange become capitalism and how did capitalism affect American lives? How have capitalist markets been constructed socially and legally? What has been the historical relationship between capitalism and gender, race, freedom, and inequality? We will explore these questions on a chronological journey from seventeenth-century cotton trading to twenty-first century foreclosure.Taking as a point of departure specific exemplary houses, both vernacular and high-style architectural forms are studied from the perspectives of the history of style, of technology, sustainability, and of social use.  We look at space (interior space, the relationship of structure to site, the relationship of site to environmental and economic context), and we look at interior design, decorative arts, and infrastructure.  We consider materials as well as plan, elevation, and expressive form.  Both the class as a whole and the student research projects take a case-study approach.  Considering examples from the 17th and 18th centuries as well as from the 19th and 20th, the class will provide students with a broad background in habitation in what is now the United States, as well as experience in hands-on original research concerning the built environment today.  While much of our attention will focus on unknown builders, we will also study some of the best-known houses (and most widely-dispersed models).  Architects whose work we will consider include Thomas Jefferson, Frank Lloyd Wright, Charles and Henry Greene. One all day Saturday field trip.The place of the actor in the theatrical event has evolved over the centuries, and some of the most revolutionary changes in the US took place in the 1960s, when society itself was undergoing dramatic upheaval. Theater and performance became urgent sites of political and social commentary. The avant-garde and experimental theater movement that began in the late 1950s and extended into the 1970s drastically reconsidered the theater’s role in society, its relationship to the audience, and how acting itself should function. Theater collectives formed, devising works together; rigorous attention was given to movement and voice; theatrical space was re-imagined; minority voices took center stage. Many theater makers were activists for these new approaches, among them Joseph Chaikin, founder of the Open Theater, whose seminal 1972 book The Presence of the Actor, gives this class its name. Though striking and unsettling performances like the Open Theater’s The Serpent, or the Living Theater’s Paradise Now! may have seemed to arrive out of nowhere, seeds had been planted by the politically, artistically and methodologically provocative work of European theorists such as Brecht, Artaud, and Grotowski, who saw acting in entirely new ways. Taken together with American avant-garde experiments beginning in the 1930s by the likes of John Cage and Merce Cunningham, which questioned the nature of art itself, these practitioners laid the groundwork for twentieth century innovation in western theater and performance. They blurred lines between genres, introduced new kinds of voices and techniques, and challenged once comfortable barriers between character and self, performer and audience, stage and street, text and object, narrative and abstraction, art and real life. Collectives, and individual playwrights and performers, such as the Living Theater and the Open Theater, the San Francisco Mime Troupe, El Teatro Campesino, the Wooster Group, At the Foot of the Mountain, Amiri Baraka, Meredith Monk and Rachel Rosenthal – each driven by new and particular priorities on theater, culture, and the performative act – altered our understanding of the theatrical experience and its relationship to the world at large. Weekly readings, screenings, lectures, and group discussions will be used to grasp this fascinating period, and help students understand how the country’s social and political history, and these aesthetic innovations, were inseparable. A mid-term, final exam, and research paper will be required. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login1948 was the year that America—after the Great depression, after the Second World War, after sixteen years of the all but revolutionary experiment in national government of the New Deal—let out its collective breath. Finally, that great exhaling said, we can go back to real life but what was “real life?” Centering on 1948, but moving a few years back and a few years forward, this class will explore the sometimes instantly celebrated, sometimes all but subterranean experiments in American culture and literature that tried to raise and answer that question. The artists, writers, filmmakers, painters, musicians, poets, and social theorists who emerged to tell that national story included Miles Davis and Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg and Ross McDonald, J.D. Salinger and Ray Bradbury, David Riesman and Marshall McLuhan. This course will follow the traces of this explosion as well as contextualize the American that was being born. It will include films, popular music, Life Magazine, advertising culture and television as well as novels, poetry and discussions of visual images.The Progressive era saw waves of new immigrant communities to urban centers, dramatic shifts in industrial manufacturing technology, and war. As such what it meant to be an American also shifted toward an emphasis on strenuous outdoor work, collective investment in morality, and new standards around food and nutrition. This course considers how the culture, politics and policies of this time reinforced a racialized standard for the ideal American body. We will investigate the historical contexts that give rise to the proper diet, the role of the USDA, and our modern concepts of nutrition. Importantly, we will also consider how these arise in conversation with the institutionalization of scientific racism, representations of the changing ethnic food landscape in America’s nascent urban centers, and the construction of the unhealthy and immoral “other.” We will draw from primary sources like dietary reports, USDA pamphlets, packaged food labels, and health and lifestyle manuals to understand the material world of Americans negotiating their food, classed, and raced lives. This course can be used for TIME, PLACE, or PRE-1900 major requirements, depending on the research you do for the course.In this course, we will examine the indigenous history, literature, and art of California, with an emphasis on northern California. We will read primary works by Native California writers, look at the artwork of Native California artists, and learn about the history and cultures of indigenous people in California. In addition, we will schedule visits to the archives of the Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology and the Bancroft Library here on campus as well as historic sites and cultural institutions locally. We may also go on a field trip or two.This course examines half a century of life in the United States (roughly from the War of 1812 until the secession of the Southern states), focusing on race relations, westward expansion, class formation, immigration, religion, sexuality, popular culture, and everyday life. Assigned readings will consist largely of first-person narratives in which women and men of a range of ethnic and cultural backgrounds construct distinctive visions of life in the new nation. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginFirst Great Depression, the United States of America transformed itself from an isolationist and agricultural country into the richest, most powerful nation in the world. This era is characterized by the stunning growth of industrial and finance capitalism and the seemingly insignificant birth of what quickly became the dominant institution in our world: the modern business corporation. The building of vast corporate monopolies in money, steel, tobacco, movies, food, oil, electricity, organized crime, etc. reorganized every aspect of American life and culture from our cities to our sports, from our politics to our popular entertainment. The Age of Monopoly represents the birth of modern America, and with these great changes came epic social, sexual and racial conflicts characterized by the often violent clash of labor and capital, the repression of African American rights and the triumph of white supremacy, the cataclysmic end to 400 years of Indian wars, the challenge of feminism and the New Woman, the confrontation of Americans with the rest of the world in the form of mass immigration and imperial expansion, the rise of major reform and revolutionary movements, and the growth of state institutions dedicated to stopping them. The focus of this class will be to consider the economic and political changes of the Age of Monopoly through a study of its culture, for it was this half-century that gave birth to modern American culture in the form of illustrated magazines and comic strips, world's fairs and amusement parks, Wild West shows and vaudeville, the advertising and public relations industry, window shopping and department stores, skyscrapers and national parks, military buildups and IQ tests, talk radio and Jazz music, automobiles and suburbs, and most importantly, the Hollywood movie. NOTE: THIS COURSE SATISFIEST THE UNIVERSITY'S AMERICAN CULTURES REQUIREMENT.  The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginFirst Great Depression, the United States of America transformed itself from an isolationist and agricultural country into the richest, most powerful nation in the world. This era is characterized by the stunning growth of industrial and finance capitalism and the seemingly insignificant birth of what quickly became the dominant institution in our world: the modern business corporation. The building of vast corporate monopolies in money, steel, tobacco, movies, food, oil, electricity, organized crime, etc. reorganized every aspect of American life and culture from our cities to our sports, from our politics to our popular entertainment. The Age of Monopoly represents the birth of modern America, and with these great changes came epic social, sexual and racial conflicts characterized by the often violent clash of labor and capital, the repression of African American rights and the triumph of white supremacy, the cataclysmic end to 400 years of Indian wars, the challenge of feminism and the New Woman, the confrontation of Americans with the rest of the world in the form of mass immigration and imperial expansion, the rise of major reform and revolutionary movements, and the growth of state institutions dedicated to stopping them. The focus of this class will be to consider the economic and political changes of the Age of Monopoly through a study of its culture, for it was this half-century that gave birth to modern American culture in the form of illustrated magazines and comic strips, world's fairs and amusement parks, Wild West shows and vaudeville, the advertising and public relations industry, window shopping and department stores, skyscrapers and national parks, military buildups and IQ tests, talk radio and Jazz music, automobiles and suburbs, and most importantly, the Hollywood movie. NOTE: THIS COURSE SATISFIEST THE UNIVERSITY'S AMERICAN CULTURES REQUIREMENT.  The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginAfter graduating with honors and a double major in English, Rosemarie went on to pursue a Master's degree in Specialized Journalism (The Arts) at the University of Southern California. She is a first-generation college student and, in turn, is the first in her family to pursue a post-graduate degree. She is also the Rotten Tomatoes Fellow in Digital Innovation and Film Criticism, working with the company to redefine the role of the critic in the modern era. Along with Charisse Celestial ('17), she is the co-founder of FLASH THRIVE zine collective, publishing art zines with work by local creatives.One month after graduation, Hunter packed up and moved to Melbourne, Australia, on a yearlong work and holiday visa.  In addition to exploring the country, he is currently working in advertising for the Australian Traffic Network, where he is putting his area of concentration to work. Before returning to the U.S. either to continue a career in media or to pursue a graduate degree, Hunter plans to visit more of the South Pacific.Miesha currently works for the Solano County Office of Education in the Special Education department. She is studying for both the CBEST and the Housing and Urban Development written exam. With the goal of a career that allows her to make a positive impact on the community in which she lives, Miesha also plans to pursue a Master's in Public Health Community Education.After graduation, Robert accepted a full-time position with Outward Bound USA, where he collaborated with ten of the most experienced Outward Bound educators to form a National Learning Lab tasked with re-evaluating Outward Bound's curriculum with the aim of adapting it to suit K-5th graders in a traditional educational setting. Robert led a trial run of such a program this summer at an elementary school in Omaha with great success and will be rolling out five programs to the Omaha Public School system in 2017-2018.  Robert is eager to pursue a Master’s in Public Policy.Sally Littlefield currently works for the Public Education Campaigns and Programs team at Futures Without Violence, a San Francisco-based national nonprofit organization dedicated to ending violence against women and children. Sally thanks her American Studies background for giving her the ability to understand the very real role culture plays in shaping our society. This knowledge has proven invaluable in her work developing public awareness campaigns that aim to break cultural norms that disempower women.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Western has long held an important place in American cinema, and its role has evolved with the changing culture of American society. Through a structural analysis of the HBO series, Deadwood, Ivan Boekelheide's thesis argues that the Western no longer foregrounds the search for heroic morality, preferring to delight in social and moral ambiguities.American Studies 110: Advertising AmericaFilm 108: Silent FilmsFilm 108: AnimationHistory of Art 185A: American Art from 1800American Studies H110: American National Character (Honors Seminar)Political Science 109F: Special Topics in American PoliticsUpon graduating in May 2007, Ivan went to Thailand and Myanmar where he spent nearly two years as a teacher. On returning to the U.S., Ivan completed a Master's degree in Law and Diplomacy at the Fletcher School at Tufts University.  Currently, Ivan works to strengthen economic relations between the U.S. and Southeast Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington, D.C.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThrough the life and social experience of United States Army Second Lieutenant William Nelson Colson Cleavon Gilman's honors thesis examines the manner in which the Northernization and subsequent Francization of Southern Negro soldiers during the 1910s and 20s produced an unprecedented amount of conscientious objectors. A comparison between the post-Reconstruction and Civil War generations shows that the latter was more passive towards whites because they lived under slave rule. On the other hand, the Northernization of the post-Reconstruction generation produced conscientious objectors dissatisfied with southern living conditions; consequently, many Northernized Negroes chose to remain in the North where racism was much more negligible. Furthermore, the Francization of the Northernized Negro solider during World War I produced the unprecedented militant New Negro solider who militantly demanded equality when provoked or witnessed injustices towards other Negroes.Sociology 140: Political SociologyAfrican American Studies159: Hip HopPeace and Conflict Studies 125AC: War, Culture, & SocietyChicano Studies 180: Topics in Chicano StudiesEthnic Studies 103A: Racialization and EmpireEducation 190: Current Issues in EducationAfter graduating in 2009, Cleavon completed a post-Baccalaureate in Physiology at California State University East Bay.  In 2016 he became of Doctor of Medicine after completing training at UCSF.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginFor more than a century, Del Monte's red tomato "Shield" has represented the "Quality" of its products. Everardo Mora explains that Del Monte's red tomato "Shield" also represents the "Quality" of its workforce. Based on the oral histories of Latino cannery workers, Mora documents and explores the meaning of "cannery culture" and the important contributions this "cannery community" made to California's rich agricultural history.American Studies H110: Methods, Histories, and Controversies (Honors Seminar)American Studies C134: Information Technology & SocietyAmerican Studies 110: Sociology of Sister-CitiesEthnic Studies 130AC: Multicultural AmericaChicano Studies 150B: History of the SouthwestNative American Studies 102: Critical Native American Legal and Policy StudiesAs one of four recipients of the 2009 Judith Lee Stronach Baccalaureate Prize, Everardo Mora received $20,000 and a Visiting Scholar placement at UC Berkeley in order to continue his research on "cannery culture." His goal was to produce a narrative infused with the voices, stories, and experiences of Latino cannery workers in order to better understand ethnic diversity, the culture of mass production, language and literacy, and identity construction on the shop floor of the last full-scale cannery to close in the Silicon Valley, a valley that once was known as the Valley of Heart's Delight. Everardo currently works as a Project Manager at Orton Development, Inc.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginYi-Ning Chiu's thesis outlines the experiences of evangelical Christians of color living in the United States between 1950 and the present, and situates their experiences within the broader narrative of evangelical Christianity in America.  Using interviews with ethnic evangelical students at UC Berkeley, writings on spirituality produced by ethnic evangelical communities, and a study of historically significant interactions between ethnic and white evangelicals in America, it paints a portrait of evangelical Americans of the past half-century.  With this portrait, it challenges the pervasive notion that evangelicalism equals whiteness and conservatism, and then traces the ways in which ethnic believers have occupied and shaped America's religious landscape alongside their white counterparts.International and Area Studies 115: Global PovertyHistory 137AC: Repeopling AmericaHistory 132B: Intellectual History of the United States since 1865American Studies H110: American National CharacterPolitical Science 144B: Korean PoliticsSociology 131AC: Race and Ethnic Relations: U.S. American CulturesAfter graduating in 2012, Yi-Ning worked briefly for an online education startup before returning to the American Studies department, where she was a section leader for American Studies 10: "Hollywood: The Place, the Industry, the Fantasy."  After continuing to work as a Reader for American Studies courses and co-pastoring the college fellowship of Ark Ministries of Berkeley, a local non-denominational, multi-ethnic church, Yi-Ning joined the team at Year Up, an award-winning national 501(c)3 organization striving to close the Opportunity Divide by equipping urban young adults ages 18-24 to reach their potential through professional careers and higher education.  She works there as an Internship Services Specialist.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginAmerican society is sympathetic to sex-trafficked women and children from Asian and European countries; however, Black female prostitutes from urban locations such as East Oakland are often forgotten.  By actively engaging in cognitive dissonance around race, gender, and class, Americans fail to recognize the humanity of Black women and girls involved in street prostitution.  Feelings of indifference toward Black female prostitutes convey that the Black female body, even today, is valued less than any other body.  Inadvertently, this same dissonance benefits exploiters and consumers of the sex trade, rendering Black women and girls in prostitution disposable, culpable, and invisible.  However, depressingly so, this construction of the Black female body as immoral and more blameworthy is hardly new, rather it harkens back to old practices of chattel slavery and Victorian-era politics.  Patricia Boone's honors thesis argues that in order for Americans to see the humanity in Black female prostitutes, the idea that the Black body is incapable of victimization must be discarded, so that Black women and girls are given the same priority, concern, and protection as any other victim of commercial sexual exploitation.Sociology 110: Organizations and Social InstitutionsHistory 100: Crime, Punishment, and PowerLegal Studies 163: Juvenile JusticeSociology 124: Sociology of PovertyLegal Studies 102: Policing and SocietySocial Welfare 107: Foundations, Philanthropy, and the Social ServicesShortly after graduation in May 2013, Patricia packed her car and drove solo heading East with an eagerness to take what she learned at UC Berkeley and explore an expanding world.  Her road trip took a total of ten days, during which Patricia camped under the stars in Utah, danced in cowboy saloons in Wyoming, and witnessed electric skies over Nebraska.  In 2016 Patricia graduated from Northwestern School of Law, and and co-founded CompassBlu, LLC, a synergistic and diverse consulting firm that connects people to their purpose, producing results that inspire global change.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginOften cited as one of, if not the greatest television show of all time, I Love Lucy has captured the attention of critics, audiences, and fans alike for decades.  While much has been written of the show and the antics of zany "fifties" housewife Lucy Ricardo's failed attempts to make it in show business, almost nothing exists about Lucy's sidekick and affable partner-in-crime, Ethel Mertz.  Theresa Berger's honors thesis focuses on filling in this incredible gap in the canon of Lucy studies by exploring the theme and character of female friendship in the show.  By combining magazine and newspaper articles, cast and crew interviews, and individual episode analyses with cultural history, feminist theory, and current sociological understandings of female friendship, the lens of "friendship studies" develops as a way to understand what I Love Lucy represented to female audiences both in the 1950s as well as today.  From the simultaneous challenge and reassertion of gender norms to the growing emphases on upward mobility and consumer spending that define our cultural understanding of the decade (and still mean something in the present), Theresa argues that the friends in I Love Lucy reflect an oscillating and thus more historically accurate representation of the place and stance of white, suburban women in the fifties than  the show's red-headed female lead could ever embody.  In the process, it becomes clear that it was not just Lucy, but a number of talented and interconnected women in the show that all "[had] some 'splainin' to do."American Studies 101: The Atomic AgeAmerican Studies 101AC: World War IIAmerican Studies 101: The Birth of Consumer Society in the U.S.American Studies 101: The Great Exhaling: Politics, Culture, and History 1956-1952American Studies 180A: Advertising AmericaAmerican Studies H110: The New Literary History of AmericaSince October 2013, Theresa has been working as a substitute teacher for a high school Advanced Placement English Literature class, where she loves using her American Studies background to draw on history, movies, and culture as ways to engage students and show them that what they are reading is more than just a series of words on a page.  She has also been a section leader and course assistant for a number of American Studies courses, including: AS 188D: San Francisco Detectives and AS 188K: American Horrors: Monsters in US Cinema and Literature (Summer 2013); AS 111/ English C136: The Great Exhaling (Spring 2014); AS 101: World War II (Fall 2014); and AS 101: World War II and AS C111/ English C136: The Gilded Age (Fall 2015).  In August 2016 Theresa will begin the Master's in History program at San Francisco State University, and on completion will apply to Ph.D. programs.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginRobert Cancio's thesis centers on migration as a cultural work, and examines a case study of 20th century Los Angeles through which he argued that cultural identities of migrants in 20th century Los Angeles create specific impressions or cultural landscapes.  Through the use of quantitative methods, Robert demonstrated that not only is Los Angeles a pluralist society rather than a melting pot, but also that there is one similarity within all migrational groups, specifically those that migrate(d) to Los Angeles, which is possessing and practicing a culture of upward mobility through public education.Legal Studies 132AC: Immigration and CitizenshipDemography 145AC: American Immigrant ExperienceChicano Studies 159: Mexican ImmigrationChicano Studies 163: Caribbean MigrationEthnic Studies 103A: Racialization and EmpireSociology 190AC: Seminar on Immigration in the United StatesAfter a May 2013 graduation, Robert moved back to Los Angeles to spend time with his family before embarking on a cross-country trip cutting through the southern United States.  He backpacked in Tuolumne Meadows in Yosemite; hiked through the Grand Canyon in Arizona; visited Fort Selden State Monument, a former United States Army post for the Buffalo soldiers in New Mexico; toured the Alamo in Texas; feasted on Cajun shrimp in New Orleans; and visited Disney World in Florida--a trip her is certain American Studies students would appreciate.  Robert is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in Sociology at the University of Miami, where he hopes to build on his interdisciplinary training in American Studies.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginJen Kim's honors thesis analyzes the housing and development policies under Jerry Brown's mayoral administration during the late 1990s in order to better understand the current development patterns that are radically transforming the city of Oakland.  Jen argues that Brown's 10k housing initiative and the community's response to the program mark an important "affordable housing moment" that has influenced the trajectory of neoliberal local development and oppositional organizing strategies.  Using a Right to the City framework, Jen explores the themes of power, politics, and planning that shape urban development not only in Oakland but also in every major city across the U.S. City & Regional Planning 118AC: The Urban CommunityPublic Policy C103: Wealth and PovertyAmerican Studies H110: American National CharacterSociology 130: Social Inequalities: American CulturesHistory 136AC: Gender Matters in Twentieth Century AmericaAfrican American Studies 119: Drugs and Race in U.S. HistoryDuring the summer following a May 2013 graduation, Jen worked as a public housing organizer for a community-based organization in the Lower East Side of New York City.  She is currently working toward a Master's in Urban and Regional Planning at UCLA, with a focus on community economic development and housing.  She is most interested in learning about alternative development models and plans to continue organizing for more equitable communities.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginCongolese dancer and choreographer Faustin Linyekula remarked during an interview with playwright Peter Sellars that, "dance helps [him] to remember [his] name."  Robyn Taylor's creative honors thesis asks: how does dance help me to remember my name?  And, by remembering my name, how can I better recognize, witness, be with, share with, and dance within a community?  Exploring the intersections of language, movement, and self-identity, Robyn looks at her self-identity within a larger cultural context, pulling from specific American literary texts, which evidence a paradox in the American dominant culture's ethos.  As the creative component to her research questions, Robyn choreographed a dance piece that explores a very personal way of recognizing who she is, what she is a product of, and how her movement patterns have evolved from the rejection of previous power structures within the dance world.Theater 144: Sources of MovementEnglish 143B: VerseEnglish 190: Research SeminarTheater 146A: ChoreographyTheater 146B: Intermediate Dance TechniqueAmerican Studies H110: The New Literary History of AmericaAfter graduating in May 2013, Robyn Taylor took part in a professional six-week dance intensive workshop in Toubab Dialow, Senegal at Ecole des Sables.  The teaching at this dance workshop consisted of various traditional West African dance forms as well as contemporary dance and choreographic techniques.  Robyn is currently residing in Paris, France where she is studying contemporary dance at Menagerie de Verre.  Fascinated by the movement and ethos of Paris, Robyn observes the metro system, the grocery stores, and various art creations ranging from the highly commercialized to the subversive.  She writes about these observations on her blog.  She is currently collaborating with three dancers and four graffiti artists on a performance piece that will take place in a street artists’ squat December 14.  Next, Robyn will go to Salvador, Bahia, Brazil, where she will continue her dance studies in the Silvestre Technique.  Robyn applied this fall for the Fulbright Fellowship 2014, and in the upcoming year she hopes to continue her investigation of identity and dance in Senegal.  Her Fulbright proposal is titled: "Rhythm in Dakar: The Kinesthetic Exchange of Dance within a Globalized Context."The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Astor Place Riot, in New York in 1849, was set off by a rivalry between actors: the eminent English tragedian William Macready, and the first American stage star, Edwin Forrest.  When ten thousand rioters and spectators gathered outside the Astor Place Opera House, some booing and throwing stones, the state militia was summoned.  They fired into the crowd, killing at least twenty.In his honors thesis, Eli Wirtschafter looks at the Astor Place Riot in context with other forms of public behavior, arguing that the clash between rioters and the elite militia paralleled the contest between rowdiness and refinement taking place daily inside the theaters and on the streets.  As working class theatergoers fought a losing battle to maintain the principle of "audience sovereignty," they also struggled to defend the legitimacy of traditional forms of public assembly.  At a time when audience participation was a way of performing identity, a riot was another way to assert ownership of public space.American Studies H110: The New Literary History of AmericaTheater 125: Performance and History: Stanislavski in HollywoodAmerican Studies C132B: Intellectual History of the United States since 1965History 122AC: Antebellum America: The Advent of Mass SocietyAmerican Studies H110: American National CharacterAmerican Studies 102: Theming AmericaThe Departmental Citation winner for 2013 for both American Studies and Theater, Dance & Performance Studies, for his honors thesis Eli wrote a historical paper, and wrote and directed a play based on that research.  Eli is currently a reporter for San Francisco's public radio station, KALW.  Tune in to Crosscurrents, weekdays at 5 on 91.7. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIn light of the growing support for local food movements, led by proponents such as Michael Pollan and Alice Waters, Wendy Bravo utilizes the existence of a unique West Oakland food organization--known collectively as Mandela Marketplace--to explore the historical connection between racial discrimination and the current food injustices seen in many African American neighborhoods.  In "Growing Justice, Cultivating Change," Wendy discusses the role of race and privilege in explaining how institutional policies have decimated the food sovereignty of low-income Americans and also examines various cases of food activism in African American communities throughout the country.Integrative Biology 137: Human EndocrinologyChicano Studies 176: Chicanos and Health CarePublic Health 150E: Introduction to Community Health and Human DevelopmentNutritional Sciences 166: Nutrition in the CommunityPublic Health 150B: Introduction to Environmental Health SciencesESPM 163 AC: Environmental Justice: Race, Class, Equity, and the EnvironmentAfter graduating in December 2012, Wendy began working full-time with Brown & Toland Medical Group in San Francisco.  Her work mainly focuses on analyzing the implementation of accountable care organizations (ACOs)--a new payment method for doctors, where payments are determined by the overall health of a patient, rather than by how many tests or exams a patient received.  Wendy has also continued her volunteer work in community health and soon hopes to become a certified Covered California counselor to help people sign up for health insurance through the state’s health exchange.  Wendy plans on returning to school to complete the requirements for medical school and pursue a career as a primary care doctor.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginDavid Swatt's senior thesis presents a cultural history of one of the world's most famed cities.  Among central questions examined concerns how land values between Santa Monica Boulevard and Benedict Canyon gained seemingly instantaneous value.  David suggests that a spike in land values can be attributed to the development of the Beverly Hills Hotel and Pickfair.  Also addressed is whether the City's premier amenities followed the wealth or existed prior to the infiltration of society's elite.  David argues that such amenities followed the wealth, and that their purposes was to reinforce the dominant narrative and valuable myth of Beverly Hills as a sanctuary to reside, vacation, and shop.  In comparing past and present-day Beverly Hills David counters the historian Walter Wagner's suggestion that Beverly Hills is a shadow of its former self, contending that its glamorous celebrity residences and exorbitant home prices demonstrate its improvement.  The epilogue uses Lake Forest, Illinois and Great Neck, New York as a comparative lens by which to argue that the trend of premium developments existed throughout America and also to suggest how these communities contributed to a unique narrative of residential elitism.Geography 130: Food and the EnvironmentESPM 155: Sociology of Natural ResourcesAmerican Studies 101: The Birth of ConsumerismAmerican Studies 101AC: Age of the CityAmerican Studies 102: Theming AmericaESPM 169: International Environmental PoliticsSince graduation in 2012, David returned to Los Angeles, and began a full-time career selling residential real estate with the highest grossing office in the United States, Coldwell Banker-Beverly Hills North.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginRamzi Fawaz's honors thesis develops a visual history of the teenage superhero in post-WWII American culture. Ramzi argues that the teen superhero became a visual index of key historical crises in the postwar period that were metaphorized in the form of unruly superpowers and biologically unstable bodies, ultimately cathecting particular generational conflicts to the bodies of developing youth gifted with extraordinary abilities. This thesis reconstructs the historical trajectory of the figure across time while also attending to shifting thematic concerns that run across the period of its greatest popularity. By charting the lineage of the thematic concerns of these texts, the cultural diversity of their characters, as well as the villains, dilemmas, and inter-group conflicts that motivated their narratives, Fawaz unpacks an important historical thread of youth culture that continues to affect our popular imagination to this day.Film 108: Film GenreEnglish C143V: Visual AutobiographyEnglish 176: Literature and Popular Culture Sociology C112: Sociology of ReligionEnglish 173: Language/Literature of FilmsAmerican Studies 101: 1939The Departmental Citation Winner for 2006, Ramzi Fawaz is an Assistant Professor of English at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He received his PhD in American Studies from George Washington University. His book, The New Mutants: Superheroes and the Radical Imagination of American Comics, published by NYU Press as part of their series Post-Millennial Pop in January 2016, explores how the American superhero came to embody the political aspirations of racial, gender, and sexual minorities in the post-WWII period. Ramzi is a former fellow of the Social Science Research Council and the Center for Lesbian and Gay Studies, which awarded his manuscript the 2012-2013 CLAGS Fellowship Award for best first book project in LGBT Studies. His essays have been published in American Literature, Callaloo, and Anthropological Quarterly. His next book project develops a new theory of affect through the study of the cultural politics and literary production of Gay Liberation since the 1970s.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginAs local, sustainable food becomes evermore ubiquitous and eating conscious becomes the new "it" way to live, the phrase "you are what you eat" seems to be appearing more frequently.  Dani uses the origins of the phrase as a starting point to explore the difference between the organic food movement and western medicine.  The organic food movement relies on a rhetoric of health and wellness while western medicine chooses to disregard, for the most part, food and what people choose to put in their bodies.  Her honors thesis ultimately argues that the obesity epidemic will be the turning point in the antithetical relationship between food and medicine that has developed as a symptom of historical development.  Additionally, she argues that the obesity epidemic, as well as the rise in other diet related diseases, might galvanize a true working relationship between the food system and the medical sphere, resulting not only in a more holistic and culture oriented approach to medicine, but also a way to work to prevent diseases in patients instead of merely treating their symptoms.American Studies 110: Research in Food StudiesGeography 130: Food and the EnvironmentNutritional Science 104: Human Food PracticesLetters and Science C101: Edible EducationAmerican Studies 101: The Birth of Consumer SocietyHealth Studies 104 (EAP): Food ResearchAfter finishing her last semester in December of 2012, Dani spent her final academic time abroad in the United Kingdom studying food science at the University of Leeds.  She has recently moved back to Southern California to focus on Clinical and Translational research.  She is currently working as a Public Administrative Analyst for Phase 2 and 3 Clinical trials for novel treatments in both Sarcoma and Lung Cancer.  Dani has also recently been published in the Journal of American Medicine Dermatology for an epidemiological paper looking at the scope of exposure to indoor tanning.  Dani continues to bring food, nutrition, and medicine into conversation working on research that focuses on the role of BMI and overall survival in cancer patients while she applies to medical school.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginJennifer Schaefer's honors thesis includes an autoethnographic written work and a choreographed dance piece exploring and positioning her educational and associated emotional experiences within the sphere of education in America as the eldest of three children--and the only daughter--of an ethnically Chinese Vietnamese immigrant.  Fervently believing the American Dream of social mobility attainable exclusively through education, Jennifer was required to maintain straight A's in school in order to one day become a doctor or lawyer.  The focus on grades and end goals, rather than the process, ultimately left her feeling as if she existed merely as a piece of raw material to be shaped into a profitable product.  By reflection upon events, conversations, and interactions that have occurred throughout her life, Jennifer aims to discover and reveal the workings of Asian American family culture, social mobility in education, society's varying modes of conformity, and creative expression through the medium of dance in what was meant to be her early training for success.  Intersections of such contributing agents in her education then extends to the conversation regarding what it means that her experience took place.Chicano Studies172: Chicanos and the Education SystemAfrican American Studies C133A: Race, Identity, and Culture in Urban SchoolsEducation 162A: Teachers' WorkAsian American Studies 146: Asian Americans and EducationAmerican Studies H110: New Literary History of AmericaMath 151: Mathematics of the Secondary School CurriculumFollowing graduation in May 2013, Jennifer spent a year working as a math tutor and saving money in order to move to Oahu in pursuit of a slower, balanced lifestyle, the Aloha Spirit, and warmer weather.  In Fall 2014, she will begin to work towards a Ph.D. in Mathematics at the University of Hawaii, hoping either to conduct mathematics research or to become a community college professor.  In either case, Jennifer will offer free math tutoring (and possibly dance lessons) to those who are not able to afford it.  She strives to emphasize education for the sake of learning, and to challenge the commodification of education that strictly purports the acquisition of a financially rewarding job.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginWhile national homicide rates are at a record low, socioeconomically disadvantaged Black and Latino youth experience death rates disproportionately, violently, and at ages far too young.  Anavictoria Avila’s honors thesis centers on literal and figurative premature death among disadvantaged Black and Latino youth through street violence and incarceration.  Her research includes the contexts and stories behind makeshift street memorials in East Oakland and East Anaheim, where she conducted field work.  She considers how street memorials reflect socio-cultural factors as well as criminal and public policy that manufacture premature death for youth in marginalized communities. Anavictoria argues that the premature death of low-income Black and Latino youth is perpetuated by public policy that neglects to consider the racial, political, and social histories that have predetermined the disadvantaged Black and Brown body as disposable, criminal, and unworthy of consideration in legislative and legal decisions.  In response to current intervention methods of cracking down on gangs and crime through mass incarceration, Anavictoria’s honors thesis concludes with an intervention proposal that focuses on human dignity, family, community, education, and youth empowerment.Anthropology 119: Violence and Human Rights in War and PeaceLegal Studies 155: Government and the FamilyPsychology 131: Developmental Psychopathology Public Health 210B: Adolescent HealthLegal Studies 163: Adolescence, Crime, and Juvenile JusticeSociology 130AC: Social Inequalities, American CulturesAfter graduation in May 2014, Anavictoria returned to Southern California to provide post-surgery recovery care for her mother.  She also worked with several community organizations to develop pilot projects for training Anaheim’s youth in civic awareness and engagement.  With the many policy and political changes occurring in the City of Anaheim, Anavictoria wanted to support her community’s youth throughout summer projects so that their voices and concerns influence current policy discussions.  Anavictoria is currently a 2L at Northwestern School of Law, where she hopes to build from the substantive and practical foundation that her American Studies Major provided for serving and advocating for her community.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login"The Pedagogy of Motivation Part 1" is about the benefits of utilizing relevant means and relational connection to motivate disadvantaged African-American learners of basic skills, many of whom came from troubled backgrounds, such as a broken home, abuse and neglect, drug and alcohol abuse, incarceration, etc. Many were not even encouraged much for success in school, let alone life. While the focus is on disadvantaged African-American adults, Folasade Scott’s thesis is meant to provoke thought and consideration with regard to teaching anyone.  Folasade emphasizes the need to view students as people first—valuable, multifaceted human beings with interests, culture(s), personalities, learning styles, skills, experiences, etc.—and to create and maintain an environment that is community-centered, restorative, and engages all these integral parts of them. In her thesis Folasade asserts that unconditional love and care must be the "basic skills" modeled through educators and cultivated within the classroom which, as a result, will produce favorable responses and encourage positive character outcomes, no matter how wounded a person is. "The Pedagogy of Motivation Part 2" is in progress, and will focus on the application of principles from "Part 1."American Studies C174: Visual AutobiographySociology 150: Social PsychologyPsychology 150: Psychology of PersonalityEducation 197: Field Studies in EducationAfrican American Studies 159: Special Topics in African American LiteratureMusic 128S: Contemporary Improvisational MusicSince 2009 Folasade has been privileged to enrich people’s lives as a minister, teacher, counselor, and mentor, serving in various parts of the US, as well as Jamaica and Haiti; she has also remotely served people in other countries such as Qatar, Pakistan, Kenya, and Canada. Folasade specializes in restoration and development of the whole person; authentic identity expression; basic and academic life skills development; global community awareness and service; sustainability; and creative expression. She also serves as a consultant and collaborator with organizations and individuals who desire to enrich people’s lives holistically. These services are expressed through two business entities that Folasade founded and directs: a non-profit corporation called Violent Faith Ministries International Inc. and a for-profit business called Redeeming the Time. Folasade is currently completing a Master's program at Winston-Salem State University called Teaching English as a Second Language and Applied Linguistics; she plans to pursue a PhD in Educational Psychology at Georgia State University.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginMykiyaa Walker-Sanchez’s thesis aims to understand the how structural, environmental, and cultural factors put Black women at higher risk of obesity than white women.  By looking closely at health outcomes in Los Angeles county, Mykiyaa’s thesis analyzes how macro level disparities are reproduced and perpetuated at the local level.Anthropology 115: Introduction to Medical AnthropologyAfrican American Studies 116: Slavery and African American Life before 1865City and Regional Planning 118AC: The Urban CommunityCity and Regional Planning 115: Urbanization in Developing CountriesCommunication as a Social Force 124: Black Women, Feminism, and the MediaUrban Studies and Planning 104: Ethnic Diversity and the CityAfter graduating in May 2014, Mykiyaa Walker-Sanchez returned home to her first love, Los Angeles, where she spent the summer volunteering at Residential Care Facilities in urban communities and working with adults with developmental disabilities.   With future professional plans to promote positive well being through good health practices in disadvantaged communities of color and to dismantle some of the socioeconomic barriers that disproportionately affect communities of color, Mykiyaa will pursue a career in medicine as an internal medicine physician. She is currently completing a pre-medicine post-baccalaureate program.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIn her honors thesis, Patty Chen argues that the presentation of African Americans as poor welfare dependents and Asian Americans as the successful model minority supports the neoliberal notion that a person's individual choice is the determining factor in their economic success or failure in America. Patty argues that these two images obscure the reality of racial meaning and the existence of institutional forces that influence the lives of people of color. This leads to an ineffective discussions concerning how race affects the lives of people of color—discussions that focus on whether racism exists rather than meaningful ways to bridge the gap in the life experiences of people of color and whites.Asian American Studies 121: Chinese American HistoryRhetoric 152AC: Race and Order in the New RepublicAmerican Studies 139AC: US Social MovementsAfrican American Studies 111: Race, Class, and Gender in the USAmerican Studies H110: American Studies Honors SeminarEthnic Studies 144AC: Interracial Justice at LawPatty spent the summer after graduation studying for the LSAT and working.  She assisted a lawyer doing every day tasks, such as preparing documents to file in court and maintaining an organized electronic and physical copy of all documents to ensure accurate filing of all documents that relate to the cases the firm worked on.  She is currently a 2L at UCLA School of Law.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIn his thesis Alexander Lee-Thomas applies Black feminist and quare theory to the popular podcast, The Read.  Through close textual analysis of Kid Fury and Crissle's responses to contemporary racial, political, economic, and cultural events, Alexander explores the unfixed nature of identity and its intersections with oppression.African American Studies 139: Malcolm XAfrican American Studies 153: Toni MorrisonAfrican American Studies 142AC: Race and American FilmAmerican Studies H110: The Secret History of AmericaFilm 104S: British FilmMusic 102S: UK Music and Public RelationsAfter graduation, Alexander returned to southern California to spend time with family and pursue internships.  In the Fall of 2015, he will enter the Peter Stark Producing Program at USC's School of Cinematic Arts.  With an MFA, Alexander will work in television and film to increase representation of people of color and "create a new wave in motion pictures."The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIn her honors thesis, The Corporeality of Contraception, Allison interrogates Margaret Sanger’s seminal reproductive rights magazine, The Birth Control Review. Utilizing Black feminist theory and body scholarship, she examines how the body is manipulated in early 20th century reproductive rights discourse to service different projects: as a political tool to defend white women’s reproductive autonomy, as an object of resistance against racial oppression, as well as a legible text for eugenicists to discern which individuals are “fit” to make up the nation. The vignettes in the Review ultimately illustrate the disturbing alliance between white feminists and eugenicists, as both communities worked to demarcate which bodies were desirable and at the fore of national “progress” and which “abject” bodies required violent erasure.American Studies 101: The Atomic AgeGender and Women's Studies 142: Women in the Muslim and Arab WorldsAfrican American Studies 144: Cultural StudiesAmerican Studies H110: Honors Seminar: More than One Country: On Being and Belonging in AmericaAmerican Studies H110: Honors Seminar: Chicano/Latino Art/Literature in Its Place: Los Angeles, Albuquerque, New YorkGender and Women's Studies 129: Bodies and BoundariesAfter graduation, Allison began working full-time at nonprofit that helps low-income students earn four-year degrees. As a Development and Communications Coordinator, Allison writes grants, crafts promotional material, and supports all philanthropic engagement activities. Though Allison no longer writes cultural studies papers, she thinks about questions of race, nationhood, gender, belonging, and bodies (among other American Studies topics) daily.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginWhile there has been an increasing focus on transgender and undocumented communities in the last two decades, there has been limited focus on the intersectionality of the two identities, referred to as trans*undocu within Tommy Statkiewicz's honors thesis. The current attention on trans*undocu women from Mexico and Central America in detention centers deserves awareness and immediate action, but many more trans*undocu individuals from various countries of origin and points on the transgender spectrum need to be heard as well. However, this is not just a trans*undocu issue; injustices experienced by trans*undocu individuals are also experienced by the larger American society. Trans*undocu individuals face racial profiling, are denied health benefits, are targets of violence and sexual harassment, and face family rejection, among other obstacles that each American can relate to because it has happened to them or someone they know. And yet despite the layered hurdles faced by trans*undocu individuals, their resilience to live life authentically and their desire to take part in the American Dream too is shared by each American. This narrative cannot be ignored because the trans*undocu story is an American story. Education 195C: Special Topics in the Foundations of TeachingEducation 130: Knowing and Learning in Mathematics and ScienceAmerican Studies H110: Honors Seminar: Imagining AmericaAmerican Studies 182E: Urban Field Geography of San FranciscoArchitecture 110AC: The Social and Cultural Basis of DesignGender and Women's Studies 129: Bodies and BoundariesUC Berkeley and the American Studies department have afforded Tommy a newfound voice and confidence that he graciously embodies. While he finalized his senior honors thesis on trans*undocu individuals in America, Tommy apprenticed on three local queer films to indulge his creative instinct. He also completed his Board of Immigration Appeals Level 1 Accredited Representative status with Educators for Fair Consideration (E4FC) and was hired as their Legal Services Coordinator in June of 2015. Tommy plans to attend law school in the fall of 2017 so that he may continue empowering and supporting LGBTQ and undocumented communities. Tommy feels fortunate to have the support of his wife, Clara Mae, with whom he loves exploring the American landscape via road trips and someday plans to travel beyond U.S. borders. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginSophia Ng’s honors thesis, “Channels for Change: Sesame Street’s Ability to Implement Civil Rights Ideology in Children’s Programming,” investigates the interplay between television and the civil rights era. Television played an important role to capture and circulate images of war, rebellion, and social change throughout the United States in the 1960s. Her honors thesis asks, how was America’s changing social landscape portrayed on television to the nation’s most nascent demographic-- preschoolers?  Sophia’s thesis explores this question within the context of the children’s program, Sesame Street, a show known for its lovable puppets, educational content, and integrated urban setting. Sesame Street first aired in 1969, a turbulent year when television was dominated by news of the first man on the moon, the Stonewall Riot in New York City, and the beginning of Nixon’s “Vietnamization” of Southeast Asia. Juxtaposing these social realities against Sesame Street, a show that welcomed American youth into an inner city utopia, Sophia draws upon examples, such as Jesse Jackson’s recitation of “I Am Somebody” and songs like “Bein’ Green” and “People In Your Neighborhood,” and explores the ways in which Sesame Street sought to normalize values of justice and inclusivity on the small screen.Asian American Studies 171: Asian Americans in Film and VideoAmerican Studies 102: The Road in American CultureHistory 124B: The United States from World War II to the Vietnam EraHistory C139AC: Civil Rights and Social Movements in U.S. HistoryEthnic Studies 176: Ethnic Art and ArtistsAmerican Studies 2029 (University of Hong Kong): Current Perspectives on the U.S.After graduating, Sophia Ng worked at Kickstarter in New York City as an Integrity Analyst.  She also served as a Board Member for the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum*New York City (NAPAWF*NYC) chapter, where she volunteered her time working on reproductive justice, immigrant rights, and worker advocacy issues.  Sophia is currently a Fulbright Teaching Assistant, teaching English at a secondary school in Gopeng, Perak in Malaysia.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIn an industry that walks the fine line of seemingly shallow aesthetics and class-designated "conspicuous consumption," Shabnam Banerjee-McFarland's thesis asks how does the New York Fashion Industry affect the way we see race? New York fashion houses, such as Ralph Lauren and Tommy Hilfiger, are arguably some of the most subversive corporate brands in thinking about the politics of beauty, race, and the visual aesthetic due to their constant attempts to steer clear of politics. Shabnam's thesis deconstructs standards of American beauty, and the ways in which the New York fashion industry cultivates these standards during New York Fashion Week. There is a highly decisive performance that aims to perpetuate white femininity, where whiteness is unmarked and reigns supreme. Subsequently, women of color are routinely compared and contrasted to this paradigm through exoticizing and fetishizing their bodies, ultimately resulting in their erasure. She juxtaposes Vogue's photo-series entitled "Street Style," or photography captured of those attending the event (fashion bloggers, designers, photographers, journalists, etc) against the meticulously styled models captured on the runway. Representation, as always, matters.American Studies 101: The Birth of Consumer Society in the U.S.American Studies 101: American Culture in the Atomic AgeAfrican American Studies 142AC: Race and American FilmMedia Studies 104A: Freedom of Speech and the PressAmerican Studies 102: Cultures of Place: California FoodHistory 125A: The History of Black People and Race Relations, 1550-1861After a series of trial-and-error attempts to start a career in fashion retail and marketing, Shabnam Banerjee-McFarland did a 180 turn and channeled her energy into working with non-profits and learning more about the importance of disseminating change-making policy in all popular culture channels. Since January 2015, she has been working in book marketing with Berrett-Koehler Publishers, a mission-based publishing company in Oakland, CA that publishes books on social justice, conscious capitalism, and self-help in order to "Create a World That Works For All." Most recently, she is designing an extensive research program to confront the extreme lack of diversity in publishing, in hopes of elevating voices from communities that are underrepresented in the industry. A true SF native through and through, Shabnam continues to fight to maintain the colorful vibrancy of San Francisco & Oakland by writing for her personal blog and the Berrett-Koehler blog.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginIn her senior honors thesis, Neha presents a larger discussion between two culturally distinct countries, India and America, that both suffer from problems of racism that similarly exhibit themselves through an internalized desire for whiteness as a means of gaining social status. She first notes how this desire for whiteness amongst South Asians is manifested physically through the socially pathogenic skin bleaching phenomenon and then shifts the conversation over to the American landscape to argue that Indian Americans have turned away from this physical demonstration of lightness in order to attain their own form of whiteness. In order to gain the same levels of social status, socioeconomic status, and social advancement that is associated with skin lightening practices in India, South Asian Americans are engaging in social, rather than physical, practices of whitening through an adherence to the model minority stereotype and through promotions of anti-Black racism. In order to accomplish this feat, Neha critically analyzed various cultural mediums, such as social media platforms, television shows, advertisements, literature, psychological research, and anthropological studies to provide evidence for her case.American Studies H110: Imagining AmericaEnglish 166AC: Race and PerformanceEthnic Studies 100: Comparative Ethnic Literature in AmericaGender and Women's Studies 129: Bodies and BoundariesPsychology 166AC: Cultural PsychologyPsychology 167AC: Stigma and PrejudiceAfter graduation, Neha, a double major in American Studies and Psychology, moved to the other side of the Bay to serve as the Project Manager for the Healthy Body Image Study at Stanford University and Palo Alto University. This clinical psychology research study aims to improve body image culture on college campuses by offering a suite of programs that are designed to prevent and treat the onset of eating disorder symptomology amongst college women. Neha hopes to attend a clinical psychology doctoral program in the Fall of 2017 and will utilize the racial, social, and political awareness that she gained from her American Studies courses in her future work as a clinician. Neha’s ultimate goal is to work at the intersection of cultural and clinical psychology in order to address the stigma of mental health that affects all individuals, most especially people of color. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginA moral panic erupted in the 1980s when stories about crack cocaine saturated the American media.  Isis's thesis outlines social thought about drugs and drug use in the 1980s, explores medical opinion about drug use, compares how policy and law were developed, analyzes propaganda depicting Black women as drug abusers, and ultimately develops a deep historical reading of the emergence and effects of the "Just Say No!" campaign. In her thesis, Isis argues that the campaign's slogan and practices reflect a "pick yourself up by your bootstraps" mentality that is embedded in American culture and that is directly reified in structural inequality.African American Studies W124: Political Philosophy of Martin Luther KingAfrican American Studies 139: African American Social Organizations and InstitutionsAfrican American Studies 139: EducationAmerican Studies H110: More than One Country: On Being and Belonging in AmericaAmerican Studies H110: American Rebels and RevolutionariesGender and Women's Studies 130AC: Gender, Race, Nation, and HealthAfter graduation, Isis plans to build a career that excites her passion for communication, digital marketing, and social media. Starting January 2016, she will be working full time as a Market Development Representative for a technical recruitment company called TalentBin in San Francisco.  Isis's ultimate academic goal is to return to school in 2018 to pursue a Master's of Business Administration and a Master's of Public Administration. These degrees will allow her to make a practical impact on how business institutions intersect with ideas of race, sex, class, gender, and disability.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginExploring how Musée Mécanique, a penny-arcade museum in San Francisco, embodies aspects of Coney Island at the turn of the 20th century, Kelly Naze’s senior honors thesis unpacks the cultural fascination with machines, the mystery of objects that re-imagine turn-of-the-century pleasure parks, and the deleterious effects of contemporary consumerism on such mechanical memories.American Studies 101: The Birth of ConsumerismAmerican Studies H110: Rebels and RevolutionariesDemography C126: Social Consequences of Population DynamicsInformation C167: Virtual Communities/Social MediaSociology 160: Sociology of CultureSociology 166: Society & TechnologyAfter graduating with honors and ending a lifelong swimming career, Kelly returned home to Denver, Colorado, where she will put her competitive spirit and passion for planning to work as she starts her own business as a wedding planner.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginVanessa Padilla’s senior thesis borrows themes from Charles Dickens’s timeless novel, A Tale of Two Cities, to understand the disproportionate environmental burdens carries by communities of color in Richmond, California and Flint, Michigan. Focusing on the water crisis in Flint and the toxic air pollution in Richmond, Vanessa’s comparative interdisciplinary thesis unpacks the history of each crisis against a backdrop of scientific data, media representation, political rhetoric, and private corruption.African American Studies C133: Race, Identity, and Culture in Urban SchoolsChicano Studies 159 : Mexican ImmigrationChicano Studies 172: Chicanos and the Educational SystemEducation 140AC: Literacy: Individual and Societal DevelopmentEducation 190: Critical Studies in EducationSociology 130AC: Social Inequalities: American Cultures   The summer after graduation Vanessa immersed herself in French language and culture while living in Paris.  On her return to the states, Vanessa continues to intern for Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, serving constituents in San Francisco.  Vanessa plans to pursue a degree in environmental law, so that she can advocate for people who face environmental crises like those she addressed in her senior thesis.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginWith $3.5 billion to divide between roughly 1,200 baseball players each year, the Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) is described by members and scholars as the most powerful union in the country. When the then-ineffective MLBPA was founded in 1953, private sector unionization was at its zenith. Today, the MLBPA is at the height of its power at a time when private sector unionization has hit a nadir, with a mere 6.6% of Americans unionized, down from a peak of 35% in the 1950s. In this context it can be tempting to regard the MLBPA as a formidable outlier that has successfully bucked the trend of deunionization, but the reality is far less uplifting. To achieve success, the MLBPA has actually repressed low-level workers within the same industry, thereby creating a microcosm of our current era — the New Gilded Age, defined by a growing divide between rich and poor — in professional baseball. This repression has come in the form of restricting minor league player rights and is exemplified by the union’s actions during the 1994-1995 player strike, the rollback of baseball’s antitrust exemption, and changes to the format of the amateur draft. At the same time, a shift from policies that benefit the largest number of players to ones that favor superstars has resulted in rampant individualism within the baseball world and has perhaps been to the detriment of the well-being of the union. Alec Kassin's senior honors thesis illustrates how a large concentration of labor power shared only by a few select workers within an industry can be just as problematic for lower level worker rights as a large concentration of corporate power.Business Administration 196: Sports MarketingEducation 290B: Education in Language, Literacy, and CultureHistory 124B: The United States from World War II to the Vietnam EraPolitical Science 103: CongressPolitical Science 106A: American Politics: Campaign Strategy - MediaPublic Policy C103: Wealth and PovertyAlec, the Departmental Citation recipient for 2016, graduated with Highest Honors after a longer-than-expected college career, marked by a high of spending a year studying abroad in France, and a low of taking a year off from Berkeley due to a back injury. In the summer after his graduation, he plans to work as a camp counselor for an American-style summer camp in Japan, helping Japanese youth learn English by participating in American sports. In October, he will begin work in LinkedIn's Business Leadership Program, rotating through multiple sales units before taking on a full-time role in their Global Sales Organization. Though his long-term plans are unclear (they may consist of a return to academia to earn a Master's in Public Policy, a run for political office, or both), Alec’s ultimate goal is to have a career through which he can find fulfillment helping others. Right now, Alec is engrossed in learning about the causes, effects, and possible solutions to widening inequality in American society.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginSha Quasha’s senior thesis explores the significant and misunderstood relationship between power, health and race. Focusing on the complex constructions of Black masculinity and its interactions with history, language, and media representation, she unpacks how particular social identities must navigate society and health care, specifically whether or now and how to pursue mental health care.  Sha Quasha demonstrates how discursive practices are used to create and perpetuate racialized mental health disparities, and argues that Black men’s reluctance to seek mental health care is not simply a matter of individual choice, but their decisions are largely shaped by external forces.  African American Studies 111: Race, Class, and Gender in the United StatesPublic Health C155: Sociology of Health and MedicinePsychology 166AC: Cultural PsychologySociology 110: Organizations and Social InstitutionsSociology 131AC: Race and Ethnic Relations: U.S. American CulturesSocial Welfare 110: Social Work as a ProfessionBecause she is passionate about being a model for success for students that come from the same background, Sha Quasha will pursue counseling for low income, first generation college students. Following summer, Sha Quasha hopes to work either as a College and Career Counselor in the Oakland Unified School District or as an Academic Advisor within the community college system. Subsequently, she plans to pursue a Master’s in Social Work with an emphasis on either Child and Family Welfare or Community Mental Health. Sha Quasha’s ultimate goal is to provide more awareness to her community about the mental health issues that adversely affect them and necessary support. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginHollywood movies are like blueprints that show the construction of the American character. In his thesis, Daniel uses an interdisciplinary approach to motion pictures and traces the evolution of cinematic American tough, from the Cold War era (1945-1991) of exclusion, to the present day (2016) of growing inclusion. He continues the scholarly argument that some movies can be, and have been, used to build togetherness, equity, empathy, altruism, and inclusion of American tough amongst the ever expanding globalized Communitas. However, as Daniel’s research into Hollywood’s cinematic American tough images, meanings and representations progressed, he discovered that more popular and mass produced films, especially during the Cold War era, were used to (1) create, promulgate and reinforce socially constructed ideologies of patriarchy, misogyny, racism, ageism, homophobia, xenophobia, and bigotry, (2) define, regulate and make American masculinity exclusive to white heterosexual males, and (3) manufacture generations of primed Americans nostalgic for a whiter America.African American Studies 142AC: Race and American FilmAmerican Studies 101: The Short American Century: From World War II to the New Frontier, 1942-1963American Studies H110: Rebels and RevolutionariesEducation 183: High School, The MovieGender and Women's Studies 100AC: Women in American CulturePeace and Conflict Studies 127: Human Rights and Global Politics As a graduating Student Veteran still attached to the U.S. Army Reserves, Staff Sergeant Acree continues his personal mission to provide his comrades, as well as all others, with improved life chances by advocating for higher education. Daniel is pursuing a single-subject teaching credential with a Master’s in Education at the University of California, Davis. He would like to be a lifelong thinker, joker, educator, and organizer. Daniel and his partner, Alayna Fredricks, enjoy their happy little life and home in sunny wherever-the-road-leads, California.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginCat's senior thesis explores the relationship between cannabis and popular and counter cultures, as it provides the key to understanding the bipolar perceptions of marijuana in the United States. Legally, Americans envision cannabis as taboo, but in popular culture Americans relate marijuana to freedom, youth and community. As such, cannabis use became a physical way to express overt protest and dissatisfaction with American institutions. As many artists, musicians and writers romanticized and glamorized marijuana, a disenchanted young generation followed suit and sought refuge with cannabis, helping turn marijuana's illegality into a political and cultural war.American Studies C118: The American TeenagerAmerican Studies 101: The Atomic Age & Nuclear CriticismAmerican Studies 110: Folklore and American CultureAmerican Studies C118: Consumerism and Popular CultureAmerican Studies H110: Honors Seminar on American National CharacterSociology 160: The Sociology of CultureSince graduation in 2007 Catherine has kept herself busy in an array of activities from working in museums to Latin America travels.  After years of managing the Lululemon store in Berkeley, she currently resides in Austin, Texas, where she works as a bartender and yoga instructor.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginAdrienne Johnson's honors thesis is an examination of the story we tell ourselves about ourselves in an eating contest.  While competitive eating today traces its roots back to early American pie-eating contests, the current level of prize money and professionalism point not to a flippant exercise in public ridicule, but to a performance of great cultural meaning.  Using the three distinct scholarly approaches of history, anthropology, and gender studies, Adrienne's research uncovers the tensions of American assimilation, consumerism, and patriarchy.  The performative body of the competitive eater is just one of the many texts this research has drawn upon; a series of interviews with competitive eaters, fat activists, and audience members have offered personal understanding while the scholarship of theorists and anthropologists like Mikhail Bakhtin have grounded the research into the academic literature of cultural performance.Sociology 180: American SocietyAnthropology 162: American FolkloreGeography 181: Urban Field StudyAmerican Studies C112B: American Cultural Landscapes, 1900 to the PresentHistory of Art 192AC: American Folk ArtAmerican Studies 250: Graduate Research Seminar in American StudiesThe Departmental Citation Winner for 2009, Adrienne recently completed her PhD in the Modern Thought and Literature program at Stanford.  Titled Diet and the Disease of Civilization, 1977-2008, Adrienne's dissertation analyzes how instructional texts — diet books, nutrition policy, medical research — have measured civilization by the human costs of social progress.  Other academic publications include articles on competitive eating, Paleo diet mythologies, dude ranches, locavorism, and grocery store couponing. She also writes for popular, non-academic audiences in BuzzFeed Food and Gastronomica.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe importance of women in jazz has been a severely neglected topic, despite active female participation throughout the genre's history.  To examine this, Jessica Gresham's honors thesis underscores the importance of African American female instrumentalists throughout the early developments of jazz. Using Mary Lou Williams as an archetype, Jessica traces both music and event histories from blues up to the evolution of jazz fusion in the 1970s.  The primary sources consist of original music recordings of the women examined, deconstructing them within a historical context. Combining both a music and event history—as well as personal event history of the artists mentioned—the combination of sources and insight reveal the historical and musical importance of African American female instrumentalists in jazz.American Studies 110: The History, Politics, and Landscape of Consumer SocietyAfrican American Studies 142AC: Race and American FilmFilm 123: 1950s Film and PropagandaAustralian Studies: Australia and AmericaLetters and Science 180C: Social and Behavioral ScienceSociology 125: Urban SociologyJessica graduated with honors in 2009, and she currently works as a Veterinary Assistant at the San Francisco SPCA.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginColor-Blind Jim Crow is an exploration of race, identity, and narrative in the post-World War II United States. Oscillating between legal scholarship and family history, Begley takes the reader through the series of Supreme Court decisions that opens the door for what Eduardo Bonilla-Silva calls ‘color-blind racism.’  From the 'prerequisite cases' of US naturalization law to contemporary school desegregation suits, Begley considers the role a 'consensus memory' of the Civil Rights Movement plays in propagating a particular definition of racism -- one that maintains an individual, psychological, and often transactional focus. Ultimately, Begley asks: how might we destabilize color-blind racism and its central ideological frames? Employing the methodology of storytelling, he argues that it is important to highlight 'race-neutral' public policies in the Jim Crow South to work toward this aim.African American Studies 112B: Political and Economic Development in the Third WorldAfrican American Studies 116: Slavery and African American Life before 1865African American Studies 160: African LiteraturesAmerican Studies H110 : Honors Seminar on American National CharacterEnglish 133T: Topics in African American Literature and Culture: Toni MorrisonEthnic Studies 130AC: The Making of Multicultural America: A Comparative Historical PerspectiveThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginSonja’s honors thesis unpacks the cultural work of American Girl’s products by looking at the dolls, books, and accessories as tools of childhood education.  The histories presented by American Girl characters are often a young girl’s first foray into American history, giving great power to the stories.  Many critics of American Girl question whether or not the narratives are accurate, disregarding that history is a series of ideologies and perspectives retold as truth.  American history is regularly told from a white and upper-class perspective, disregarding the experiences of others.  The characters of American Girl and their stories tackle gender, race, and class conflicts throughout American history but rarely present histories different from the normatively white cultural readings of history present in textbooks.  When the history is presented from a Black or Latino standpoint, the American-ness of the character is questioned, signaling a division in the message and cultural work being done by the narrative.  American Girl’s products reinforce the normative white values instead of pushing boundaries and urging young and impressionable girls to explore new perspectives and question what they have been taught as fact.  The first chapter discussed the relationship between dolls, books, and play, giving an understanding of how dolls and doll-play help form understandings of what it means to be young, female, and American.  Three character case studies followed, with each focusing on how class and race are constructed within the character’s six-book series.  The final chapter explored how education and the historical characters were reconsidered under Mattel’s ownership beginning in 1998.History 124B: The United States from World War II to the Vietnam EraAfrican American Studies 142AC: Race and American FilmMedia Studies 101: Visual CommunicationsAmerican Studies 101AC: World War IIAmerican Studies 101: The Birth of ConsumerismAmerican Studies H110: The New Literary History of AmericaImmediately following graduation, Sonja moved from Berkeley to Los Angeles and began working as an administrator at a small independent elementary school.  For two years, she led the after school enrichment program and managed the school’s internal and external communications.  Sonja’s duties increasingly involved working in the admissions office, assisting with prospective parent communications, event coordination, and the collection of admissions data and materials.  Beginning in July 2016, she transitioned from the enrichment coordinator position to the full-time admissions and communications assistant.  Sonja is currently applying to graduate programs in library science and archival studies.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginDuring her last semester before graduating, Miriam Perales studied health seeking behaviors in the small community of Mae Sot, which lies at the border between Thailand and Myanmar. This experience coupled with her senior thesis research on curanderismo confirmed her decision to pursue a career in medicine to work specifically with communities of color that lack sufficient health services. Miriam is currently employed as a medical technician at Eye Physicians of the East Bay where she interacts with patients, works alongside optometrists and opthamalogists, and learns about  ocular health complications and diseases.  She is also applying to post-baccalaureate-pre-med programs with the ultimate plan of serving her community as a doctora.After graduating with Highest Honors from the American Studies and English programs in May 2017, Kristen Wilson, the Departmental Citation recipient for 2017, spent the summer traveling to console herself on the end of her undergraduate career.  She plans to apply to graduate programs in American Studies and History in order to subject herself to at least another half decade of research, writing, and revision, with an eye towards a lifetime of such labor.  Her ultimate ambition is to encourage similar dedication to and fulfillment through careful research, critical thought, and concise writing in the students she manages to trick into enjoying their academic pursuits.As a graduating Student Veteran still attached to the U.S. Army Reserves, Staff Sergeant Acree continues his personal mission to provide his comrades, as well as all others, with improved life chances by advocating for higher education. Daniel is pursuing a single-subject teaching credential with a Master’s in Education at the University of California, Davis. He would like to be a lifelong thinker, joker, educator, and organizer. Daniel and his partner, Alayna Fredricks, enjoy their happy little life and home in sunny wherever-the-road-leads, California.Alec, the Departmental Citation recipient for 2016, graduated with Highest Honors after a longer-than-expected college career, marked by a high of spending a year studying abroad in France, and a low of taking a year off from Berkeley due to a back injury. In the summer after his graduation, he plans to work as a camp counselor for an American-style summer camp in Japan, helping Japanese youth learn English by participating in American sports. In October, he will begin work in LinkedIn's Business Leadership Program, rotating through multiple sales units before taking on a full-time role in their Global Sales Organization. Though his long-term plans are unclear (they may consist of a return to academia to earn a Master's in Public Policy, a run for political office, or both), Alec’s ultimate goal is to have a career through which he can find fulfillment helping others. Right now, Alec is engrossed in learning about the causes, effects, and possible solutions to widening inequality in American society.Because she is passionate about being a model for success for students that come from the same background, Sha Quasha will pursue counseling for low income, first generation college students. Following summer, Sha Quasha hopes to work either as a College and Career Counselor in the Oakland Unified School District or as an Academic Advisor within the community college system. Subsequently, she plans to pursue a Master’s in Social Work with an emphasis on either Child and Family Welfare or Community Mental Health. Sha Quasha’s ultimate goal is to provide more awareness to her community about the mental health issues that adversely affect them and necessary support. The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginAfter graduating with honors and ending a lifelong swimming career, Kelly returned home to Denver, Colorado, where she will put her competitive spirit and passion for planning to work as she starts her own business as a wedding planner.The summer after graduation Vanessa immersed herself in French language and culture while living in Paris.  On her return to the states, Vanessa continues to intern for Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, serving constituents in San Francisco.  Vanessa plans to pursue a degree in environmental law, so that she can advocate for people who face environmental crises like those she addressed in her senior thesis.After graduation, Isis plans to build a career that excites her passion for communication, digital marketing, and social media. Starting January 2016, she will be working full time as a Market Development Representative for a technical recruitment company called TalentBin in San Francisco.  Isis's ultimate academic goal is to return to school in 2018 to pursue a Master's of Business Administration and a Master's of Public Administration. These degrees will allow her to make a practical impact on how business institutions intersect with ideas of race, sex, class, gender, and disability.After graduation, Neha, a double major in American Studies and Psychology, moved to the other side of the Bay to serve as the Project Manager for the Healthy Body Image Study at Stanford University and Palo Alto University. This clinical psychology research study aims to improve body image culture on college campuses by offering a suite of programs that are designed to prevent and treat the onset of eating disorder symptomology amongst college women. Neha hopes to attend a clinical psychology doctoral program in the Fall of 2017 and will utilize the racial, social, and political awareness that she gained from her American Studies courses in her future work as a clinician. Neha’s ultimate goal is to work at the intersection of cultural and clinical psychology in order to address the stigma of mental health that affects all individuals, most especially people of color. After graduation, Alexander returned to southern California to spend time with family and pursue internships.  In the Fall of 2015, he will enter the Peter Stark Producing Program at USC's School of Cinematic Arts.  With an MFA, Alexander will work in television and film to increase representation of people of color and "create a new wave in motion pictures."The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginUC Berkeley and the American Studies department have afforded Tommy a newfound voice and confidence that he graciously embodies. While he finalized his senior honors thesis on trans*undocu individuals in America, Tommy apprenticed on three local queer films to indulge his creative instinct. He also completed his Board of Immigration Appeals Level 1 Accredited Representative status with Educators for Fair Consideration (E4FC) and was hired as their Legal Services Coordinator in June of 2015. Tommy plans to attend law school in the fall of 2017 so that he may continue empowering and supporting LGBTQ and undocumented communities. Tommy feels fortunate to have the support of his wife, Clara Mae, with whom he loves exploring the American landscape via road trips and someday plans to travel beyond U.S. borders. After graduation, Allison began working full-time at nonprofit that helps low-income students earn four-year degrees. As a Development and Communications Coordinator, Allison writes grants, crafts promotional material, and supports all philanthropic engagement activities. Though Allison no longer writes cultural studies papers, she thinks about questions of race, nationhood, gender, belonging, and bodies (among other American Studies topics) daily.After graduation in May 2014, Anavictoria returned to Southern California to provide post-surgery recovery care for her mother.  She also worked with several community organizations to develop pilot projects for training Anaheim’s youth in civic awareness and engagement.  With the many policy and political changes occurring in the City of Anaheim, Anavictoria wanted to support her community’s youth throughout summer projects so that their voices and concerns influence current policy discussions.  Anavictoria is currently a 2L at Northwestern School of Law, where she hopes to build from the substantive and practical foundation that her American Studies Major provided for serving and advocating for her community.After a series of trial-and-error attempts to start a career in fashion retail and marketing, Shabnam Banerjee-McFarland did a 180 turn and channeled her energy into working with non-profits and learning more about the importance of disseminating change-making policy in all popular culture channels. Since January 2015, she has been working in book marketing with Berrett-Koehler Publishers, a mission-based publishing company in Oakland, CA that publishes books on social justice, conscious capitalism, and self-help in order to "Create a World That Works For All." Most recently, she is designing an extensive research program to confront the extreme lack of diversity in publishing, in hopes of elevating voices from communities that are underrepresented in the industry. A true SF native through and through, Shabnam continues to fight to maintain the colorful vibrancy of San Francisco & Oakland by writing for her personal blog and the Berrett-Koehler blog.Immediately following graduation, Sonja moved from Berkeley to Los Angeles and began working as an administrator at a small independent elementary school.  For two years, she led the after school enrichment program and managed the school’s internal and external communications.  Sonja’s duties increasingly involved working in the admissions office, assisting with prospective parent communications, event coordination, and the collection of admissions data and materials.  Beginning in July 2016, she transitioned from the enrichment coordinator position to the full-time admissions and communications assistant.  Sonja is currently applying to graduate programs in library science and archival studies.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginPatty spent the summer after graduation studying for the LSAT and working.  She assisted a lawyer doing every day tasks, such as preparing documents to file in court and maintaining an organized electronic and physical copy of all documents to ensure accurate filing of all documents that relate to the cases the firm worked on.  She is currently a 2L at UCLA School of Law.After graduating, Sophia Ng worked at Kickstarter in New York City as an Integrity Analyst.  She also served as a Board Member for the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum*New York City (NAPAWF*NYC) chapter, where she volunteered her time working on reproductive justice, immigrant rights, and worker advocacy issues.  Sophia is currently a Fulbright Teaching Assistant, teaching English at a secondary school in Gopeng, Perak in Malaysia.After graduating in May 2014, Mykiyaa Walker-Sanchez returned home to her first love, Los Angeles, where she spent the summer volunteering at Residential Care Facilities in urban communities and working with adults with developmental disabilities.   With future professional plans to promote positive well being through good health practices in disadvantaged communities of color and to dismantle some of the socioeconomic barriers that disproportionately affect communities of color, Mykiyaa will pursue a career in medicine as an internal medicine physician. She is currently completing a pre-medicine post-baccalaureate program.Since October 2013, Theresa has been working as a substitute teacher for a high school Advanced Placement English Literature class, where she loves using her American Studies background to draw on history, movies, and culture as ways to engage students and show them that what they are reading is more than just a series of words on a page.  She has also been a section leader and course assistant for a number of American Studies courses, including: AS 188D: San Francisco Detectives and AS 188K: American Horrors: Monsters in US Cinema and Literature (Summer 2013); AS 111/ English C136: The Great Exhaling (Spring 2014); AS 101: World War II (Fall 2014); and AS 101: World War II and AS C111/ English C136: The Gilded Age (Fall 2015).  In August 2016 Theresa will begin the Master's in History program at San Francisco State University, and on completion will apply to Ph.D. programs.Shortly after graduation in May 2013, Patricia packed her car and drove solo heading East with an eagerness to take what she learned at UC Berkeley and explore an expanding world.  Her road trip took a total of ten days, during which Patricia camped under the stars in Utah, danced in cowboy saloons in Wyoming, and witnessed electric skies over Nebraska.  In 2016 Patricia graduated from Northwestern School of Law, and and co-founded CompassBlu, LLC, a synergistic and diverse consulting firm that connects people to their purpose, producing results that inspire global change.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginAfter a May 2013 graduation, Robert moved back to Los Angeles to spend time with his family before embarking on a cross-country trip cutting through the southern United States.  He backpacked in Tuolumne Meadows in Yosemite; hiked through the Grand Canyon in Arizona; visited Fort Selden State Monument, a former United States Army post for the Buffalo soldiers in New Mexico; toured the Alamo in Texas; feasted on Cajun shrimp in New Orleans; and visited Disney World in Florida--a trip her is certain American Studies students would appreciate.  Robert is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in Sociology at the University of Miami, where he hopes to build on his interdisciplinary training in American Studies.During the summer following a May 2013 graduation, Jen worked as a public housing organizer for a community-based organization in the Lower East Side of New York City.  She is currently working toward a Master's in Urban and Regional Planning at UCLA, with a focus on community economic development and housing.  She is most interested in learning about alternative development models and plans to continue organizing for more equitable communities.After finishing her last semester in December of 2012, Dani spent her final academic time abroad in the United Kingdom studying food science at the University of Leeds.  She has recently moved back to Southern California to focus on Clinical and Translational research.  She is currently working as a Public Administrative Analyst for Phase 2 and 3 Clinical trials for novel treatments in both Sarcoma and Lung Cancer.  Dani has also recently been published in the Journal of American Medicine Dermatology for an epidemiological paper looking at the scope of exposure to indoor tanning.  Dani continues to bring food, nutrition, and medicine into conversation working on research that focuses on the role of BMI and overall survival in cancer patients while she applies to medical school.Following graduation in May 2013, Jennifer spent a year working as a math tutor and saving money in order to move to Oahu in pursuit of a slower, balanced lifestyle, the Aloha Spirit, and warmer weather.  In Fall 2014, she will begin to work towards a Ph.D. in Mathematics at the University of Hawaii, hoping either to conduct mathematics research or to become a community college professor.  In either case, Jennifer will offer free math tutoring (and possibly dance lessons) to those who are not able to afford it.  She strives to emphasize education for the sake of learning, and to challenge the commodification of education that strictly purports the acquisition of a financially rewarding job.After graduating in May 2013, Robyn Taylor took part in a professional six-week dance intensive workshop in Toubab Dialow, Senegal at Ecole des Sables.  The teaching at this dance workshop consisted of various traditional West African dance forms as well as contemporary dance and choreographic techniques.  Robyn is currently residing in Paris, France where she is studying contemporary dance at Menagerie de Verre.  Fascinated by the movement and ethos of Paris, Robyn observes the metro system, the grocery stores, and various art creations ranging from the highly commercialized to the subversive.  She writes about these observations on her blog.  She is currently collaborating with three dancers and four graffiti artists on a performance piece that will take place in a street artists’ squat December 14.  Next, Robyn will go to Salvador, Bahia, Brazil, where she will continue her dance studies in the Silvestre Technique.  Robyn applied this fall for the Fulbright Fellowship 2014, and in the upcoming year she hopes to continue her investigation of identity and dance in Senegal.  Her Fulbright proposal is titled: "Rhythm in Dakar: The Kinesthetic Exchange of Dance within a Globalized Context."The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Departmental Citation winner for 2013 for both American Studies and Theater, Dance & Performance Studies, for his honors thesis Eli wrote a historical paper, and wrote and directed a play based on that research.  Eli is currently a reporter for San Francisco's public radio station, KALW.  Tune in to Crosscurrents, weekdays at 5 on 91.7. After graduating in December 2012, Wendy began working full-time with Brown & Toland Medical Group in San Francisco.  Her work mainly focuses on analyzing the implementation of accountable care organizations (ACOs)--a new payment method for doctors, where payments are determined by the overall health of a patient, rather than by how many tests or exams a patient received.  Wendy has also continued her volunteer work in community health and soon hopes to become a certified Covered California counselor to help people sign up for health insurance through the state’s health exchange.  Wendy plans on returning to school to complete the requirements for medical school and pursue a career as a primary care doctor.After graduating in 2012, Yi-Ning worked briefly for an online education startup before returning to the American Studies department, where she was a section leader for American Studies 10: "Hollywood: The Place, the Industry, the Fantasy."  After continuing to work as a Reader for American Studies courses and co-pastoring the college fellowship of Ark Ministries of Berkeley, a local non-denominational, multi-ethnic church, Yi-Ning joined the team at Year Up, an award-winning national 501(c)3 organization striving to close the Opportunity Divide by equipping urban young adults ages 18-24 to reach their potential through professional careers and higher education.  She works there as an Internship Services Specialist.Since graduation in 2012, David returned to Los Angeles, and began a full-time career selling residential real estate with the highest grossing office in the United States, Coldwell Banker-Beverly Hills North.After graduating in 2009, Cleavon completed a post-Baccalaureate in Physiology at California State University East Bay.  In 2016 he became of Doctor of Medicine after completing training at UCSF.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginJessica graduated with honors in 2009, and she currently works as a Veterinary Assistant at the San Francisco SPCA.The Departmental Citation Winner for 2009, Adrienne recently completed her PhD in the Modern Thought and Literature program at Stanford.  Titled Diet and the Disease of Civilization, 1977-2008, Adrienne's dissertation analyzes how instructional texts — diet books, nutrition policy, medical research — have measured civilization by the human costs of social progress.  Other academic publications include articles on competitive eating, Paleo diet mythologies, dude ranches, locavorism, and grocery store couponing. She also writes for popular, non-academic audiences in BuzzFeed Food and Gastronomica.As one of four recipients of the 2009 Judith Lee Stronach Baccalaureate Prize, Everardo Mora received $20,000 and a Visiting Scholar placement at UC Berkeley in order to continue his research on "cannery culture." His goal was to produce a narrative infused with the voices, stories, and experiences of Latino cannery workers in order to better understand ethnic diversity, the culture of mass production, language and literacy, and identity construction on the shop floor of the last full-scale cannery to close in the Silicon Valley, a valley that once was known as the Valley of Heart's Delight. Everardo currently works as a Project Manager at Orton Development, Inc.Since 2009 Folasade has been privileged to enrich people’s lives as a minister, teacher, counselor, and mentor, serving in various parts of the US, as well as Jamaica and Haiti; she has also remotely served people in other countries such as Qatar, Pakistan, Kenya, and Canada. Folasade specializes in restoration and development of the whole person; authentic identity expression; basic and academic life skills development; global community awareness and service; sustainability; and creative expression. She also serves as a consultant and collaborator with organizations and individuals who desire to enrich people’s lives holistically. These services are expressed through two business entities that Folasade founded and directs: a non-profit corporation called Violent Faith Ministries International Inc. and a for-profit business called Redeeming the Time. Folasade is currently completing a Master's program at Winston-Salem State University called Teaching English as a Second Language and Applied Linguistics; she plans to pursue a PhD in Educational Psychology at Georgia State University.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginThe Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User LoginA total of 30-36 upper-division units are required in the major with at least 20 units in the Area of Concentration. All courses taken to satisfy the major requirements must be taken for a letter grade, and students must maintain a 2.0 GPA in the major in order to graduate.All courses taken to satisfy the major requirements must be taken for a letter grade.* Examining U.S. Cultures in Time * Examining U.S. Cultures in PlaceStudents are required to take one course each from the two methods series, "Time" and "Place." It is expected that these courses will be completed during the junior year. See department listings for available courses every semester. Due to the unique interdisciplinary nature of the courses, these requirements should be satisfied at UC Berkeley. Note: "Time" courses include A.S. 101 and A.S. C111 and "Place" courses include A.S. 102 and C112, as well as other courses noted in each semester's department listings.A minimum of six classes (20-22 units) of upper-division course work, drawn from the College of Letters and Science and the Professional Schools and Colleges, are required in the student's individually articulated area of concentration. The area of concentration must include courses from at least two different departments, but no more than three courses from any one discipline. The area may include courses from up to six different departments.Areas of concentration may be highly individualized, depending on the student's intellectual focus, prior preparation, and the availability of courses. Students planning to declare the major should complete a four year plan, major application form and meet with a faculty advisor in their sophomore year or early in their junior year to plan their upper-division program. Subsequently, this program can be revised only with the approval of the faculty advisor. For further information see the sample areas of concentration.Because American Studies at UC Berkeley is an interdisciplinary program based on the major's own offerings and supplemented by individualized programs of study drawing on the resources of the whole campus, students in this major complete their work in the major with an interdisciplinary senior thesis. The thesis is intended to give students the opportunity to develop an extended analysis of a significant problem, and to craft the essay into a finished piece of scholarly work. It is designed to give students a sense of competence and confidence in framing, exploring, and completing an explicitly interdisciplinary project. NOTE: The senior thesis course may not be taken before students have completed the American Studies core requirements and most of their area of concentration classes.American Studies 189 is an optional intensive reading and research seminar that will assist students in the development of skills fundamental to advanced research in the humanities, social sciences and cultural studies. The effort entails identification of research topics, cultivation of interdisciplinary metholodologies, compilation of annotated bibliographies, and completion of a literature review, which may serve as the first portion of the American Studies senior thesis.There are four ways to satisfy the thesis requirement:1. American Studies 191 Students in this course will work together and independently to achieve individual interdisciplinary research papers which draw on their preparatory work in American Studies. Students should prepare for this project over the course of their careers at UC Berkeley, and be ready, by the second week of class, to submit a thesis prospectus, including a working title, a 1-page description of the problem or issue addressed, and a statement of the method or approach which they plan to utilize.2. American Studies 190 (under the direction of an individual faculty member) Students who elect this option must prepare a bibliography and write a brief description of their proposed thesis the semester before they plan to enroll in 190. They must also secure a faculty advisor from an appropriate field who will agree to direct the thesis. They must then submit their proposal, along with the signature of their faculty director, to the American Studies office to obtain a course control number. Note: Students who wish to include creative work as part of their thesis requirement may use this option. Students should pick up the blank Thesis Proposal / Faculty Advisor Agreement in 237 Evans Hall.3. American Studies H195 -- Honors Thesis In order to graduate with Honors in the major, eligible students must enroll in A.S. H195 (Senior Honors Thesis). For admission to A.S. H195, students must have senior standing, an overall gradepoint average of 3.51, and a grade-point average of 3.65 for all (upper- and lower-division) courses taken in completion of the major.4. Thesis Course Offered by Another Department Students may enroll in an upper-division seminar in a department or field appropriate to their area of concentration for which they must write a substantial research paper. This course must be approved in advance by an American Studies faculty advisor.The Office of Undergraduate and Interdisciplinary Studies : 231 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.0108 Administrative Office : 237 Evans Hall(PH) 510.642.9320 Copyright © Regents of the University of California UC Berkeley - All rights reserved | Contact | User Login