http://southasia.berkeley.edu/academic-chairs /n



WHAT WE DO | PRIVATELY FUNDED PROGRAMS | ISAS CHAIRS | PARTNERSHIPS | COMMITTEES | IN THE NEWS  ISAS has successfully secured private and government funds to enhance South Asia studies at Berkeley. The Institute has raised money for four Academic Chairs.Chair in Tamil StudiesThe Chair in Tamil Studies was established in November 1997, with help from the academic and Tamil-American communities, to insure the continued teaching of Tamil language and literature in the United States and to encourage the use of state-of-the-art technology in the study of Tamil. The current chair-holder is George L. Hart, Professor of Tamil, in the Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies.Indo-American Community Chair in India StudiesThe Indo-American Community Chair in India Studies endowment was the result of a community-based campaign in 1990 and 1991. Helped significantly by the efforts of the Consul General of India in San Francisco, the Hon. Satinder K. Lambah, hundreds of members of the Indo-American community throughout California and the West made contributions to this endowment. The Chair was officially inaugurated with two brilliant guest lecturers in 1991-1992, by Nobel laureate physicist S. Chandrasekhar and former U.S. Ambassador to India John Kenneth Galbraith. In addition to Consul General Lambah, Ambassador Abid Hussain and UC Berkeley Chancellor Chang-lin Tien spoke at the Chair inaugural. Also during that year ISAS brought two short-term holders of the Chair to lecture for several weeks at Berkeley, legal scholar Upendra Baxi and sociologist André Beteille both from Delhi University. Since then the Chair has been held by economist Mrinal Datta Chaudhuri, political scientist Subrata Mitra, environmentalist Ramachandra Guha, political scientist Sudipto Kaviraj, literary critic Meenakshi Mukherjee and others. Professor Pradeep Chhibber was named Chair when he joined the UC Berkeley faculty in 2001.Sarah Kailath Chair of India StudiesThe Sarah Kailath Chair of India Studies was established by Thomas Kailath, and Vinita and Narendra Gupta in honor of Dr. Kailath's wife, Sarah Kailath, to enhance awareness and knowledge of issues relating to the Indian subcontinent. Further details about the chair and Sarah Kailath may be viewed here. The current Sarah Kailath Chair is Professor Lawrence Cohen, Chair, Institute for South Asia Studies and Professor, Anthropology and South Asian Studies. Professors Raka Ray, Robert P. Goldman and Thomas Metcalf previously held the Chair.Quaid-i-Azam Chair in Pakistan StudiesThe Quaid-i-Azam Chair of Pakistan Studies - named for Mohammed Ali Jinnah, the leader who founded Pakistan, also known by the title, "Father of the Nation," or "Quaid-i-Azam" - was established in May 1999 with the help of the government of Pakistan to encourage increased knowledge of Pakistan in the United States and to help forge better ties between American academics and their counterparts in Pakistan. The Pakistan government's Ministry of Education provides the funds for the chair-holder’s salary and other expenses. The Quaid-i-Azam Chair of Pakistan Studies is designated for a visiting scholar. It was held by Dr. Tariq Rahman in 2004.These grants are designed to support dissertation research for Ph.D. candidates whose research focuses on Sikh or Punjabi studies. We encourage proposals from students of any discipline in the humanities or social sciences.Open to Ph.D. students in any stage of their doctoral program. Preference will be given to students who are conducting their research or writing their dissertation.Two awards of $1,000 each will be awarded- January 28, 2011: All proposals due by close of business.- February 18, 2011: Fellowship awards announced.Applicants should submit a statement of purpose outlining their dissertation research project. The statement of purpose should be 2-3 pages long and should include a summary of the research, contribution to current knowledge, methodology for carrying out the research, and describe specifically how the funds will be used.In addition, please supply an estimated budget, a timeline, a recent CV, and two letters of reference (one must be from your current dissertation advisor).Please send applications by email to: (preferred)pkala@berkeley.eduOr by mail to:Ahluwalia Dissertation Research AwardCenter for South Asia Studies10 Stephens HallUniversity of California, BerkeleyBerkeley, CA 94720For further information please contact:Center for South Asia Studiescsas@berkeley.edu510-642-3608Program | Lectureship | Graduate Fellowship | AwardeesThe Bhattacharya Graduate Fellowship provides support for graduate fellowships in the form of competitive grants of up to $1000 for research travel to South Asia (two will be awarded) and $500 for domestic conference travel or in-country library research (two will be awarded). For further details on the application procedure and deadlines, please click here.Program | Lectureship | Graduate Fellowship | AwardeesThe Bhattacharya Graduate Fellowship will award UC Berkeley graduate students competitive grants for topics related to contemporary India of up toThe application process will open on February 1, 2018 for travel or conferences to take place during the summer of 2018 (i.e., May through August 2018) or the 2018-19 academic year (i.e. August 2018 through May 2019). Deadline for submission of application materials is April 15, 2018 by 5 pm.Open only to UC Berkeley graduate students. Please submit your application by using the application portals listed below. APPLICATION PORTAL FOR RESEARCH TRAVELDeadline: April 15, 2018 by 5 PMAPPLICATION PORTAL FOR CONFERENCE TRAVELDeadline: April 15, 2018 by 5 PMIn your application for IN-COUNTRY LIBRARY or RESEARCH TRAVEL, please include the following:CONFERENCE TRAVEL is only available for presenting your own research. In your application for conference travel, please include:Please submit applications through the application portals provided above. Emailed applications will not be accepted.For questions, please email: Puneeta Kala at pkala@berkeley.eduProgram | Lectureship | Graduate FellowshipThe Bhattacharya Graduate Fellowship will award graduate students competitive grants for research travel to India and up to $500 for domestic conference travel for presentations on topics related to contemporary India.  For further details on the application procedure and deadlines,  please click here.  home   |   agenda   |    speakers   |   participants   |   success stories  |   photos  |   resources  |  contact(Please click on the red text below for links to short video clips from the four day seminar. The photo on the right features some students who visited the Institute.)In April 2016, the Institute for South Asia Studies at UC Berkeley was awarded a grant from the Institute of International Education and the Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs to host the 2016 Fulbright Pakistan Social Entrepreneurship and Re-entry Seminar. After months of organizing, the ISAS hosted 130 Pakistani students for a four-day seminar from April 27 – May 1. This seminar (full agenda can be found HERE) prepared the students for their return home and introduced them to the field of social enterprise.The welcoming dinner at the Oakland Marriott City Center began with remarks from MUNIS FARUQUI, Professor in the Dept of SSEAS and Co-Chair of the Berkeley Pakistan Initiative. Welcoming the students to Berkeley, Professor Faruqui spoke about the history of the Berkeley Pakistan Initiative and introduced the next set of speakers. DAVID RANZ from the Department of State congratulated the students on the completion of their Fulbright programs. AMBASSADOR JILANI to the U.S. from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan reminded the students of the immense impact that they could make in Pakistan because of this program. The evening keynote speaker was AMRA TAREEN, the President of Organization of Pakistani Entrepreneurs (OPEN) Silicon Valley. Speaking from her own experience in enterprise, Amra delivered an inspiring lecture and encouraged the students to use their passions and interests to contribute to Pakistan.Following a successful opening dinner, the students were connected the next day via Skype to twelve Pakistani Fulbright alumni. This VIRTUAL ALUMNI PANEL provided the students with an opportunity to hear how the alumni used their degrees to further their professional career and how they navigated their return to Pakistan. After the panel, the U.S. Educational Foundation in Pakistan showed videos of Fulbright alumni that had actually started social enterprises in Pakistan such as BUSHRA RAHIM and OMAR ADNAN. These videos showed the potential that these Fulbright students have to make change in Pakistan.Many of these 130 students had never met each other before. Coming from different institutions across the US and from a diverse range of disciplines, this was the first time that many of them were meeting their fellow Fulbrighters. SANCHITA SAXENA, Executive Director of the ISAS, broke the ice and had the students introduce themselves to someone new through a game. This allowed the students to break away from their discipline and meet others from different universities. Further contributing to this interdisciplinary space was TATHEER HAMDANI from Habib University who spoke to the students about the interdisciplinary space that Habib University is striving to provide in Karachi.The students then began a workshop that aimed to help them navigate their return to Pakistan. Led by Jason Patent, Jess Delegencia, and Lauren Moloney-Egnatios from the CENTER FOR INTERCULTURAL LEADERSHIP at UC Berkeley, this workshop provided students with the opportunities to integrate what they had learned in the US with their life at home and to their future career decisions. This session provided the students with the opportunity to create a supportive community. Students such as SARAH HUSSAIN and MADIHA PARVEZ used this opportunity to reflect on their time in the US and share their perspective on how they would use the Fulbright experience to contribute to Pakistan. DILAWAR SYED, President of Freshdesk and OPEN Global, continued the theme of civic innovation in Pakistan during his evening keynote lecture. Drawing from his experiences in Sialkot and with the White House, Dilawar provided examples of how the students could impact Pakistan.Recognizing the power and privileges of the Fulbright program was a significant theme during this seminar. In an engaging workshop on Friday morning, Dean SUDHA SHETTY taught participants how to map their own individual power and networks. After students realized their own resources, she then had them work in interdisciplinary groups to address issues such as PROMOTING WOMEN IN STEM and CHILDREN’S EDUCATION. This workshop prepared the students to begin thinking about how they could all become social entrepreneurs by using their existing talents.The remainder of the day focused on social enterprise and began with a PANEL on social enterprise. GEORGE SCHARFFENBERGER from UC Berkeley provided an introduction to social enterprise while RICHARD MARTINEZ, CHAD STERBENZ, and ASIM FAYAZ all provided insights from their own social enterprises. UMAR AKRAM, a Cal student, gave an example of a social enterprise that was started by Pakistani students at Berkeley but seeks to improve maternal care in Pakistan.After hearing about the theory of social enterprise, the Fulbrighters then split into various groups to visit social enterprises located in the Bay Area. These social enterprises worked on a diverse group of issues from working on affordable solar energy, providing VOCATIONAL TRAINING for substance abusers and convicted criminals or using the power of film to market your social innovation. The day then culminated in a trip to Fisherman’s Wharf and dinner at two iconic San Francisco restaurants, Hard Rock Café and Bubba Gump.On the final day of the seminar, the Fulbright students were invited to attend the annual forum held by the Silicon Valley chapter of OPEN. At the forum, students were able to hear from successful entrepreneurs on a range of topics from McDONALD’S MARKETING STRATEGY to PANORAMIC VIDEOS. It also provided the students with UNPARALLELED NETWORKING OPPORTUNITIES as one student successfully distributed over thirty business cards. Additional photos from the forum can be found here.All 130 students came together at the Oakland Marriott for the final closing dinner. Welcoming the students and congratulating them on the completion of their Fulbright program was LAWRENCE COHEN, Director of the ISAS. The students then had a chance to reflect on the last few days and to share their HOPES and ideas for the future. It was extremely inspiring to see that after a short four days the students came together to support each other in various ideas such as promoting HIGHER EDUCATION IN GILGIT, providing deaf/mute children with ACCESS TO EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES, MAKING ROAD SIGNS ACCESSIBLE to the blind, REBRANDING PAKISTAN, and an app to provide HEALTH CARE access to remote areas of Pakistan. Led by ASIM FAYAZ, this session was truly amazing and a testament to how passionate and brilliant these students are. The final speech provided by BROOKE PEARSON from the Department of State allowed the students to reflect on how the Fulbright program means more than just an education but it is also a means to create social impact in the world. The night ended with two Fulbright students THANKING the Institute of International Education for providing them with the opportunity to be in the program.This seminar was an incredible opportunity for the Institute for South Asia Studies to not only strengthen existing connections but to expand our network to incorporate a brilliant group of Pakistani students. We look forward to the possibility of hosting other such orientations and to working with the Institute of International Education and Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs further! The Institute accepts visiting scholars who are pursuing a research project on South Asia that is transnational, border-crossing, or comparative in nature. We welcome  applications from active academic researchers and university faculty members. Applicants are expected to hold advanced academic degrees. Special consideration will be given to applications with a research focus on one of our three current initatives: 1) Urdu and Pakistan studies, 2) South Asian contemporary art, 3) the Indian City. For more details about our current initiatives, please go to our Research Initiatives page here. The Institute also welcomes applications from individuals with experience in government service, business or professional fields who are likely to benefit from interactions with research scholars. Current PhD students may apply for affiliation as a Visiting Student Researcher. These opportunities however are limited and are offered only in connection with current Institute initiatives or research projects. Furthermore, each visiting scholar must be nominated by a UC Berkeley faculty member.The Institute for South Asia Studies reviews applications for visiting scholars three times a year. The application process, from acceptance as a visiting scholar until arrival in the U.S., often takes at least three months and can take up to six months to complete due to visa regulations. Scholars should plan their arrival date accordingly.ISAS Visiting Scholars are independent researchers while in residence at Berkeley. Visiting Scholars enjoy full access to Berkeley libraries and electronic resources and receive an e-mail account for use during their stay. They may be invited to present or otherwise take part in seminars or conferences organized by the ISAS. Visiting Scholars are welcome to attend all announced scholarly events on campus. Classroom participation as an auditor is subject to the approval of individual faculty members. All Visiting Scholars are asked to submit a final report on the outcome of their research affiliation. The ISAS appreciates copies of publications or papers completed during a visitor's affiliation with the Institute.Please note that office space may be available on a first come, first served basis.A complete application consists of:A cover letter/letter of introduction (in English)A research proposal addressing the following:Name and contact information for Faculty Sponsor at UC BerkeleyCurriculum vitae (in English)For International Visitors ONLYProof of Funding:Copy of passport information page for scholar and any accompanying dependentsOnce all fees have been paid and secondary application materials have been received, the Institute will process the applicant's DS-2019 which will allow him/her to go to the nearest U.S. Consulate or Embassy to apply for the J-1 (Visiting Scholar) visa.After receipt of the DS-2019 and related materials, applicants are required to pay a one-time U.S. government Homeland Security processing fee of $180. Instructions on how to pay this fee will be sent to applicants with the DS-2019 and may also be found at http://www.fmjfee.com. Once this fee has been paid, applicants will then contact the local Consulate or Embassy to apply for the J-1 visa. To find the address, phone number, and business hours of the nearest Consulate or Embassy, please visit the U.S. Department of State website: http://travel.state.gov. Usually an interview with the American authorities is required to secure the J-1 visa.Complete applications may be mailed or e-mailed directly to:Completed applications are then reviewed by the ISAS Visiting Scholar Committee. Applicants will be notified of the Committee's decision in writing within a reasonable period of time.Successful applicants will be asked to submit additional application forms and to pay the required non-refundable fees listed below:* Fees must be paid in US dollars and can be in the form of an international money order, cashier's check, or personal check payable to "UC Regents". ** These fees are in addition to the "Proof of Funding" required for the issuance of a J1 visa as described in the "Application Procedures" section above.Once an invited Visiting Scholar has the visa in hand and travel plans scheduled, she/he should inform the Institute of her/his arrival dates and to schedule an appointment to complete the arrival forms required by the US government.If you have specific questions regarding the ISAS Visiting Scholars Program, please e-mail isas@berkeley.edu or visit the following websites:Home > Program“Islam Today: New Media and Youth Culture in the Middle East, South Asia and Southeast Asia” is a new collaborative program being organized by UC Berkeley’s Centers for Middle Eastern Studies, South Asia Studies, and Southeast Asia Studies for 2009-2010.This program, with funding support from the Social Science Research Council in New York, is designed generally to increase public understanding in the U.S. about Islam, by looking at how Muslim youth around the world are using new media to explore their identities, seek out and create "virtual" communities, and confront harmful anti-Muslim stereotypes, especially after the anti-Muslim backlash in the post 9/11 era.This series of programs will bring together faculty, community organizations, activists, politicians, filmmakers, comedians, writers, musicians, private sector companies, bloggers, and young people active on social networking websites connected with Islam. Since the topic of discussion itself involves new media and culture, the issues raised through this program will be disseminated through these various mediums - blogs, websites, comedy routines, and popular writings - thus not only reaching a range of communities in the Bay Area but also the virtual communities connected with one another through online forums and networking.Muslims from all parts of the world since 9/11 are facing discrimination and even threats of violence. For many young people, this post-9/11 world has sparked a new, if not confusing, relationship with their own identities as Muslims. While some young men and women may not have even identified themselves strongly as Muslim before 9/11, they have found that even just their last names may now trigger their being targeted, profiled, and even discriminated against. Others, who may have always had a close relationship to Islam and Islamic practices, have been suddenly forced to defend their religion to those who brand all Muslims as terrorists. These difficult times have led young Muslims all over the world to try and find answers, connect with other individuals in similar situations, debate issues, and even subvert commonly held notions of Islam.The ability to use the media for "networking" has been significant for these youth, as many have often felt isolated and have come to find solace in these virtual communities. As one young Muslim said, "Young Muslims are ‘resorting to this virtual world because we have no space in the actual world...'" The creation of community through media and the subversion of stereotypes through popular culture, including comedy, comic books, film, and music, have all allowed for this new generation of Muslim youth to develop their own identity. At the same time, the clash between traditional and modern forms of religious practice and ideals is continually being played out in these different forums. The ultimate goal for many young Muslims who use new media or youth culture as forms of expression are to change negative opinions and dispel stereotypes.As technology continues to evolve, including the means to connect and communicate in cyberspace, and as the countries of these three regions grapple with the changes wrought by modernization and by the effects of changing patterns in political alignments, young Muslims should see ever more opportunities to make themselves heard. What this emergence of new voices may suggest for the future of Islam, for the futures of their home countries, and for the U.S. itself, needs to be explored.We are organizing three events as part of this program. They are:Youth, New Media & Politics in the Muslim World: Our first forum will focus on how Muslim youth are using various forms of new media as a way to network with like-minded individuals, find answers to difficult questions, and challenge commonly held attitudes and stereotypes about Islam, particularly in the post 9/11 era.Youth and New forms of Social Networking: Networking has been significant for these youth, as many who feel isolated have come to find solace in these virtual communities, as well as a place where they establish their own presence and express themselves.Our second forum will explore the ways in which young Muslims use the media for creating virtual communities.Festival on Youth, Islam and the Arts: This festival will involve a series of events designed to focus on Muslim youth and some of the forms of popular culture and expression that are being used to establish a new Muslim identity and change negative attitudes. The last few years have witnessed a rise in comedians, music groups, and filmmakers exploring the struggles Muslims have been facing around the world since 9/11 and examining commonly held beliefs about Islam. Young people are using these various mediums to creatively and subtly challenge perceptions and ideas.Berkeley provides comprehensive language instruction at three levels, from introductory to advanced, in eight of the major literary and spoken languages of five countries in South Asia: Hindi, Urdu, Tamil, Bengali, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Tibetan and the recently added Telugu. Enrollments in South Asian languages are substantial and have been steadily growing in recent years. We have been able to offer language instruction in these languages because of demand from the student body and overwhelming support from the Bengali, Punjabi, Tamil and Telugu speaking communities.Our language lecturers — Sally J. Sutherland Goldman (Sanskrit), Usha Jain (Hindi), Upkar K. Ubhi (Punjabi), Gregory Maxwell Bruce (Urdu), Amitabha Basu (Bangla), S. Bharathy (Tamil & Telugu) and Gareth Sparham (Tibetan)—provide language training and expertise across South Asian literary traditions, from modern conversational language classes to the reading of classical texts.One measure of the quality of the language program is certainly the fact that the three lecturers in Hindi (Usha Jain), Tamil (Kausalya Hart) and Sanskrit (Sally J Sutherland. Goldman with Robert Goldman) have written the definitive textbooks for the teaching of their respective languages in North America. ISAS’ publishing program publishes all these books. For further information and buying information please go to our ISAS Language Publications page.Berkeley’s South Asia collection ranks among the four leading South Asia collections in the nation.The South Asia Library boasts the following holdings: Subscriptions for about 5,300 serials, 1,750 of which are published in regional languages; 25 journals and newspapers from the South Asia diasporic community; 25 South Asia daily newspapers;more than 450,000 monographs, with around 10,000 new volumes added annually; 3,700 maps; 600 videos and DVDs; numerous special collections thematically or linguistically arranged; extensive special format holdings, such as films, prints, sound recordings, slides and a number of palm leaf manuscripts in Tamil, Sanskrit and Sinhala.WHAT WE DO | PRIVATELY FUNDED PROGRAMS | ISAS CHAIRS | PARTNERSHIPS | COMMITTEES | IN THE NEWS ISAS has successfully secured private and government funds to enhance South Asia studies at Berkeley.Amrit Kaur Ahluwalia Memorial Grant ProgramISAS  established the Amrit Kaur Ahluwalia Memorial Grant Program in 2000  with the generous support of Dr. Joginder Singh Ahluwalia and family. By  annually providing grants for summer research to select graduate  students, this program gives young scholars the opportunity to pursue  their first serious research in Sikh Studies.Berkeley Bangla InitiativeThis   initiative was started in 2003 to promote the study of Bangla language   and culture at UC Berkeley, as well as for the training of scholars,   development experts, and NGO activists to conduct research in and about   West Bengal and Bangladesh. UC Berkeley now teaches first and second   year Bangla, as well as other classes on the history and culture of   Bengal.Subir and Malini Chowdhury Center for Bangladesh StudiesThe ISAS has received a major gift from the Subir and Malini Chowdhury Foundation to establish the Subir & Malini Chowdhury Center for Bangladesh Studies. In  addition to promoting and integrating interdisciplinary scholarship,  the Subir and Malini Chowdhury Center will sponsor lectures and conferences.The Mahomedali Habib Distinguished Lecture Series on PakistanThe  Mahomedali Habib Distinguished Lecture Series on Pakistan is named in  honor of one of the leading figures in the history of the Habib family.  In addition to successfully guiding the Habib family’s transition from  India to Pakistan following independence in 1947, Mahomedali Habib laid  the foundations for the House of Habib, a group of powerful business  and financial companies. The group has a long-standing history of  philanthropy and social service and is currently leading the  establishment of Habib University, a liberal arts and sciences  university, in Pakistan which aims to bridge the gap between global  academia and Pakistan. Toward honoring the legacy of Mahomedali Habib  – who was distinguished by his love for Pakistan and his deep  commitment to education and philanthropy – the Habib family has decided  to endow an annual lecture series in his name. Through this lecture  series the Habib family aims to improve and diversify conversations  about Pakistan in the United States as well as create opportunities for  US and Pakistan-based scholars to dialogue. Our inaugural lecture was delivered by leading Pakistani lawyer, advocate of the Supreme Court  of Pakistan, President Supreme Court Bar Association of Pakistan and  human rights activist, Asma Jahangir on Tuesday, October 8, 2013. Details about this lecture here.Berkeley Telugu InitiativeThe   Berkeley Telugu Initiative aims to make Berkeley, and by extension,  the  Bay Area, a premier site for the cultivation and development of  Telugu  literature, humanities, performance and social science outside  of India.  With generous gifts from the community, a beginner level  Telugu  language course was launched in UC Berkeley in Fall 2007 as a  first step  of this initiative.Bhandari Program on Indian Entrepreneurship in the Silicon ValleyThe  Bhandari Program on Indian Entrepreneurship in the Silicon Valley was  launched in Fall 2007 with a new, yearlong course titled “The Indian  Diaspora in the Silicon Valley.” The goal of this course is to document  the achievements of the Indian entrepreneurs who have contributed  significantly to the rise of the Silicon Valley, and have helped  establish the region as a critical node in the global economy. This  program has been established with generous support from the Bhandari  Foundation, a charitable trust founded in 1994 by Narpat and Chandra  Bhandari of Los Gatos, California.Gobind Behari Lal Scholarship in Science JournalismIn  1982, Phyllis Herron donated $5,000 to the UC Berkeley Graduate School  of Journalism upon her husband John Herron’s death. The gift was given  with the intention of creating a scholarship in memory of the Herron’s  long-time friend, Gobind Behari Lal, a science writer who won the  Pulitzer Prize in 1937 and the Padma Bhushan in 1969. Thereafter, Indian  community members donated additional funds to create a $10,000  endowment to support modest annual scholarships in science journalism  for deserving students in the Graduate School of Journalism. Currently,  the principle of the scholarship is $21,000, generating scholarships of  several hundred dollars for two or three students per year.Indo-American Community Lectureship in India StudiesThis  Lectureship enables ISAS to bring prominent individuals from India to  Berkeley to deliver a lecture and interact with campus and community  members during a two-week stay. The Lectureship brings a scholar from  India every other year, and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations  (ICCR) pays the visitor’s international airfare. Past Lectureship  holders include Upendra Baxi, Andre Beteille, Madhav Gadgil, Ramachandra  Guha, Meenakshi Mukherjee, Narendra Panjwani, Anuradha Kapur, Ashis Nandy, and Amita Baviskar. With  the endowment exceeding $150,000, ISAS and ICCR agreed to make the  lectureship an annual occurrence.The Maharaj Kaul Memorial FundEstablished  in  2010 in memory of Maharaj Kaul (1940 - 2009), a UC Berkeley  alum,  tireless  campaigner against injustice and for peace, founder of  groups  such as  India Relief and Education Fund, and Coalition Against  Communalism, and  long-time supporter of ISAS’s mission and activities,  the purpose of the Maharaj Kaul Memorial Fund is to provide support for   graduate fellowships and an annual lecture series on the  theme of  social justice through the Institute for South Asia  Studies at the  University of California, Berkeley. The inaugural Maharaj Kaul Memorial  Lecture was delivered by Palagummi Sainath. More details here. The second Maharaj Kaul Lecturer was Aruna Roy.The Padmanabh S. Jaini Graduate Student Award in Buddhist StudiesThe  Padmanabh S. Jaini Graduate Student Award in Buddhist Studies was  established in 2009 with a generous gift from Professor Jaini that was  matched by the Chancellor's Matching Gift Program This award supports  high-achieving graduate students in Buddhist Studies at UC Berkeley and  honors Professor Jaini's important legacy in the field of Buddhist  Studies at UC Berkeley and beyond. Padmanabh S. Jaini is Professor  emeritus of Buddhist Studies and co-founder of the Group in Buddhist  Studies. For a list of past recipients of the Jaini Award, please click here.Qayum Family Foundation Grants for Travel and ConferencesThe  Qayum Family Foundation Grants for Travel and Conferences was  established when the Qayum Family Foundation committed $5,000 annually  to fund a series of lectures and graduate fellowships through ISAS. This  pledge represents the first U.S. initiative on the part of the Qayum  Charitable and Educational Foundation, whose mission prioritizes support  of “secular principles of toleration, equitable progress, and unity in  India and the Indian diaspora.” The Foundation funds scholarships for  meritorious students, particularly women, at Aligarh Muslim University  and Shibli National College in Azamgarh.The Rajendranath Das lecture in BanglaThe  Rajendranath Das lectureship on Bangla Studies, commencing in 2008, is a  part of the Berkeley Bangla Initiative, and was created by the  generosity of Satyen Das, is a lecture series that will bring a  prominent scholar of Bangla to speak at Berkeley annually.Tata International Social Entrepreneurship SchemeThe Tata Group, one of India's largest private sector conglomerates and a global leader in innovative corporate social responsibility initiatives, in 2008 launched the Tata International Social Entrepreneurship Scheme (TISES). The primary objective of TISES is to provide international students with opportunities to contribute to community initiative projects of Tata Group companies in India and in so doing to promote international understanding. University of California Berkeley and Cambridge University in the UK are the first two participating universities. Berkeley will identify up to five upper division undergraduate or graduate students for 8-week summer TISES internships with Tata Group's community initiative programs. Through this program, competitively selected interns join Tata community development teams working on the economic and social empowerment of communities surrounding the company's operating units.The Center for South Asia Studies has a wide range of programs that fall under three thematic areas: Contemporary South Asia, Culture and the Arts, and Community. We also have several privately funded programs and four endowed academic chairs. For more information about each of these programs, please click on the left menu bar.