Students may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. "I come from the community we were studying in this class, but rather than a problem to be viewed through a microscope, I was finally able to hear the wisdom of my community, listen to their ideas, think with my peers about how our academic work can approach my community's needs."American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) courses offer students and faculty the opportunity to work with community organizations to develop cutting edge research projects associated with some of the nation's most pressing social issues. The following are a selection of the powerful projects growing from the collaborative understanding and effort developed in UC Berkeley's ACES courses:The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. The American Cultures (AC) Center is extremely grateful for your support of the AC curriculum. The advice you provide to students about AC helps prepare them for the exciting opportunities within this unique UC Berkeley curriculum. And in recognizing that critical role, we would like to share some information about, and opportunities in, the AC curriculum.In its almost three decades of existence, AC has become the campus's signature curriculum, and is now offered across over 40 departments and programs on campus, from the arts and humanities to the physical sciences. The AC curriculum is uniquely designed to offer students the opportunitiy to learn about topics as varied and including environmental justice, human rights and digital technologies, mass incarceration, language and literacy, educational inequality, andevolutionary biology.The curriculum is constantly developing, with new course additions addded each semester aimed at fostering critical conversations on the role that our diverse communities play in shaping the past, present and future of the nation. To help tell this story, the historical roots and contemporary shoots of the AC curriculum have now been captured in a short introductory video which is available on our History of AC page.To fulfill the AC requirement, students must complete an AC course of at least 3 semester units,and receive a grade of at least a C- or "Pass". Students may complete an AC course at a community college or partner institution, although we highly recommend that students take the course on the Berkeley campus, for it is part of the unique Berkeley experience. To find a list of approved courses, please visit our Courses page.In addition, students may petition for a non-AC course to be approved by the Academic Senate for credit. Although a a course may "feel" like an AC course, does not mean that it will satisfy the requirement. The Academic Senate carefully reviews every petition to ensure that the course aligns with the guidelines that make up an AC course. For more information about this process, students can visit our Petition Process page. If the information to support your advising of students is not found on this website, the AC Center staff are available to provide one-on-one consultations and also deliver presentations to college and department staff.  Please let us know if we can provide any support to you in this vital work (for example through hosting a brown bag discussion, providing a list of new AC courses and their details, or sending over some of our new ACES swag).  To do so, please email americancultures@berkeley.edu(link sends e-mail).The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. The sooner a student takes an AC course (or perhaps their first of many) the better.  Many students find that an AC course helps them discover their intellectual passion while at UC Berkeley.  And some AC courses, known as ACES courses, explicitly connect students to community partner organizations addressing issues crucial to our communities. ACES courses offer direct service placements and related research projects, defined by community partners and faculty in the development of an ACES course. In this way, students are able to study and learn directly from community partners and engage in activities which create sustainable change. For example, students have developed and participated in the following projects as part of their ACES courses: working with the Wikipedia Foundation and community partners to develop Wikipedia pages; mentoring underserved youth; Deferred Action for Early Child Arrivals (DACA) workshops; anthropology excavations in New Mexico; a Hip Hop Mixtape with Richmond Youth video projects, amongst others. For examples of these projects, please visit the Students Projects page.For a list of previous and current community partners, please visit the community organizations page.As you will read throughout our website, there are many opportunities available to students not limited to completing their AC requirement.  Some include the Student Prize, an award students may receive for their work in AC course, participating as a member of our Student Advisory Board, and work study opportunities we post on this website.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. "I come from the community we were studying in this class, but rather than a problem to be viewed through a microscope, I was finally able to hear the wisdom of my community, listen to their ideas, think with my peers about how our academic work can approach my community's needs."American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) courses offer students and faculty the opportunity to work with community organizations to develop cutting edge research projects associated with some of the nation's most pressing social issues. The following are a selection of the powerful projects growing from the collaborative understanding and effort developed in UC Berkeley's ACES courses:The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Anthropology 2AC - 'Introduction to Archaeology'Instructor: Jun SenseriSemester: Fall 2014 - Spring 2016In Professor Jun Sunseri's ACES Course, Anthropology 2AC, 'Introduction to Archaeology,' students learn about the methods, goals, and theoretical concepts of archaeology by closely examining the impact of archaeology on and the history of the construction of various communities: the Native Americans, Latin Americans, and Euro-Americans.  This course also explores professional and ethical problems affecting the practice of archaeology and the conservation, protection, and control of our nation's cultural resources.As part of the community engagement component of this course, Professor Sunseri partners with a community organization in New Mexico, the Pueblo de Abiquiu Library and Cultural Center, to teach students about the importance of historic structures in Abiquiu by closely examining narratives of excavations.  After learning about the historical context of these sites, students work with the center on excavations at the Pueblo de Abiquiu Library and Cultural Center. Students learn how to use archaeological tools to dig up a well and other structures, which they locate with the help of Professor Sunseri and the guidance of elders at the center. More information about the project can be found on the Pueblo de Abiquiu Library & Cultural Center website. In addition, the ACES Program provided funding for the center to develop video clips for the Berkeley-Abiquiu Collaborative Archaeology (BACA) Project. The clips show the excavation of the well while Professor Sunseri describes and analyzes their findings to build the narratives and understand history of the historical structures. Please click on the videos below for examples of students' work at the Abiquiu community partner site. The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Asian American Studies 132AC - 'Islamophobia and Constructing Otherness'Instructor: Hatem BazianSemester: Spring 2015Dr. Hatem Bazian's​ ​Asian American Studies 132AC​ ​ACES Course, 'Islamophobia and Constructing Otherness​,​'​ ​was​ ​designed three years ago​ ​to help students understand and combat institutionalized ​​racism, focusing on Islamophobia, its origins and progression, and the principle of "otherness": accepting and recognizing differences in others. ​​As part of the engaged scholarship component, students ​in this ACES course ​create a series of websites to inform the ​online ​community beyond the classroom of Islamophobia and institutionalized racism. ​Students create  websites ​​cover​ing​ a range of topics, beginning with the origin of the term "Islamophobia" ​to its progression and ​and expansion in the media,​ Hollywood, airports, and ​the ​law.​  ​T​he goal of th​is​ course and ​of these websites is ​to bring greater online awareness about Islamophobia in the United States​, and combat Islamophobia and institutionalized racism. To learn more about Islamophobia and to join the fight against institutionalized racism, ​please ​click on the links below. Islamophobia in HollywoodIslamophobia in AirportsFight IslamophobiaIslamaphobia in LawThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Chicana/o & Latina/o Studies Topics in Chicano StudiesIn honor of Yolo County's approval of the K-12 Ethnic Studies Program, ACES students from Celia Rodriguez's Chicano Studies 180AC participated in an art exhibit titled "All People Celebrate Ethnic Studies Today & Tomorrow" ..... Read more Women of color in the United StatesIn summer 2015, students from Professor Laura Perez's ACES Course, Chicana/o Studies/Ethnic Studies 147AC, 'Women of Color in the U.S. Through the Arts,' developed the art anthology, Silhouette Stories. Inspired by the readings and dialogues shared in the class .... Read moreThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Chicano Studies 180 - Topics in Chicano StudiesInstructor: Celia RodriguezSemester: Spring 2017In honor of Yolo County's approval of the K-12 Ethnic Studies Program, ACES students from Celia Rodriguez's Chicano Studies 180AC participated in an art exhibit titled "All People Celebrate Ethnic Studies Today & Tomorrow" at Pioneer High School in Woodland, CA on March 4th, 2017.  For this exhibit, ACES students developed and led a workshop entitled ArtE of Storytelling with Heart & Vision. Students also worked with Gilda Posada, an artist and graduate student at UC Davis in the MFA in Visual Art and MA in Visual Criticism Program in printing the silkscreened paintings.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Chicana/o Studies / Ethnic Studies 147AC - 'Women of Color in the United States'Instructor: Laura PerezSemester: Summer 2015In summer 2015, students from Professor Laura Perez's ACES Course, Chicana/o Studies/Ethnic Studies 147AC, 'Women of Color in the U.S. Through the Arts,' developed the art anthology, Silhouette Stories. Inspired by the readings and dialogues shared in the class, students compile their personal accounts and visions to create Silhouette Stories. Their stories illustrate the volatility and complexity of identity as well as the suppressions and struggles they experience based on their personal identities. Despite their hardships, students find strength and growth in their identity and empowerment in storytelling: “We write as (in) visibilized subjects attempting to be seen, heard, and understood. We welcome you to embark on this journey of (re) membering, (re) mapping, and (re) presenting.”Below are sample images from the zine. To read it in its entirety and learn about the students' narratives and experiences., please download a pdf. The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Engineering/International and Area Studies 157AC - Engineering, The Environment and Society. Instructor: Khalid KadirSemester: Spring 2015 - Spring 2017 Dr. Khalid Kadir, leads a group of qualified engineering students in his ACES course, Engineering 157AC / International and Area Studies 157AC: Engineering, The Environment, and Society at UC Berkeley. The course challenges students to look beyond the technical elements of their work and recognize the deeply social and political nature of engineering questions. With help from Berkeley Ph.D. student and Chancellor's Public Fellow Lara Cushing, Dr. Kadir has established partnerships with local and regional African-American, Asian-American, and Latino community groups, through which students have the opportunity to engage in multiple real-world projects affecting these diverse communities. Projects address a variety of environmental and social justice issues including contaminated drinking water, industrial pollution, and air pollution.  Click below for the products of the students' and community partners' work:The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Ethnic Studies 135AC - Contemporary U.S ImmigrationInstructor: Victoria Robinson Semester: Fall 2015 Professor Victoria Robinson's 'Contemporary U.S. Immigration' course (Ethnic Studies 135) covers the topic of immigration in the United States, debunking common myths about immigration, revealing the truth about immigration, and following the history of immigration to present day. One notable subject in the discussion of present day immigration is the program that President Obama has recently created: Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA).The DACA program "defers removal action against" certain undocumented immigrants; it gives temporary protection. However, many eligible immigrants are unaware of the program or the application process. Robinson's undergraduate students created infographics in both English and Spanish in order to simplify and explain the process and guide undocumented immigrants in the process of applying for DACA. Click on the images to learn about the process!EnglishSpanishThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Geography 50AC - 'California'Instructor: Seth LunineSemester: Fall 2016During the Fall of 2016, students with the UC Berkeley ACES program worked with artist and anti-displacement organizer, Leslie Dreyer, in conjunction with the San Francisco Anti-Displacement Coalition (SFADC) and the Coalition on Homelessness. Throughout the residency, they learned the policies and politics driving Bay Area displacement, how to use art, social media and community organizing to resist displacement and were connected to homeless and housing advocacy groups on the frontlines of the housing justice struggle.For their final project, they helped build, stage and document a pre-election anti-displacement action designed by Dreyer with SFADC and COH and built this website to educate students about the negative impacts of gentrification and eviction. Though this site is more an information hub than a student group, there is hope that this collaboration may catalyze a longer, deeper relationship between UC Students and the broader Bay Area housing movement. Geography 70AC, “The Urban Experience: Race, Class, and the American City”Instructor: Seth LunineSemester: Spring 2017The ACES project for Dr. Seth Lunine’s Geography 70AC, “The Urban Experience: Race, Class, and the American City” enabled five students to explore and encounter key course topics, including gentrification, racialized displacement, and community organizing. ACES students partnered with the Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation (TNDC), a nonprofit agency providing affordable housing, social work, education, and community organizing. A series of meetings facilitated by TNDC community planner Ramon Quintero brought together ACES students and Tenderloin residents, activists, and representatives of nonprofit organizations. Ongoing conversations about both existing programs and unmet community needs guided students’ research of nonprofit organizations, city services, and accessible public spaces in the Tenderloin. The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Global Poverty and Practice 150AC - Reparation and DecolonizationInstructor: Cecilia Cissell Lucas, Mara Chavez-Diaz, Lisa Gray-Garcia Semester: Fall 2015Global Poverty and Practice: Reparation and Decolonization (GPP 150AC) is an ACES course collaboratively taught by Cecilia Cissell Lucas, Mara Chavez-Diaz, and Lisa Gray-Garcia. The course covers processes and impacts of settler colonialism and racialization in the United States, the resulting resistance and liberation movements, and various discourses about academia, scholarship, and knowledge production such as the impact of systems of domination on the definitions of scholarship.GPP 150AC is offered in collaboration with community partner POOR Magazine, a grassroots non-profit, arts organization led by people of color, indigenous, and poor/houseless people. Similar to the course, POOR Magazine's mission is to provide revolutionary media access, art, education, and advocacy to silenced youth, adults, and elders in poverty across the globe and to bring more attention to race, poverty, landlessness, and degentrification. Through collaborations of this sort, students engage in cross-class, cross-racial, and intergenerational teaching, learning, activism, and art-making.To learn more about POOR Magazine, visit their website at: http://www.poormagazine.org/.As part of the ACES curriculum, students wrote personal accounts of their family's hxstory, incorporating pedagogies employed in the course and making connections between individual, community level, and structural-level scales. Below is an example of a student's project, a moving and especially insightful essay written by Eduardo Chaidez. Chaidez shares his testimony on his family's struggles, from living on government assistance to the murder of his brother and its impact on his family. Click on the image to read Chaidez's testimony.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. History 124B - The United Stated from World War II to the Vietnam EraInstructor: Gene ZubovichSemester: Spring 2016In spring 2016, Professor Gene Zubovich taught the ACES course, History 124B, 'The United States from World War II to the Vietnam Era,' which explores the political, cultural, and societal shift that the United States experienced after World War II. Apart from the history covered within this specific timeline, students also analyzed the discourse of discrimination and prejudice that persisted after the abolishment of slavery.Students in Professor Zubovich's class conducted research and created a website containing videos and information to educate others about one of the manifestations of social inequalities: discriminatory housing practices in the 20th century. They analyzed these housing practices in terms of redlining, restrictive covenants, and racial steering and evaluated the continual impact of these housing practices on today's society and communities.To learn more about the housing discrimination in the twentieth century student projects from spring 2016, click on the images below. RedliningRestrictive CovenantsRacial SteeringThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Integrative Biology 35AC - Human Biological VariationInstructro: Leslea Hlusko Semester: Spring 2015 - Fall 2016One of the world’s top ten most widely read websites, with approximately 550 million unique visitors per month, Wikipedia articles are often the number one hit when using a search browser.  In spring 2016, Leslea Hlusko and eleven undergraduates in Integrative Biology (IB) 190 developed month-long projects that students in IB 35AC will participate in through their discussion sections starting in the fall of 2016. Each discussion section edited a Wikipedia article about a topic related to the class. Every student was trained to be a Wikipedian, and developed the skills (and hopefully the motivation) to share their Berkeley-gained knowledge with the world through the improvement of Wikipedia.For examples of the IB 190 students project pages, please click on the images below, or visit one of the following links:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-canine_megadontiahttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_of_fire_by_early_humanshttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skid_Row_Cancer_Studyhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypoxic_ventilatory_responsehttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronic_stresshttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pleiotropyhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuru_(disease) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fore_peoplehttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperandrogenismhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evolutionary_mismatchhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Height_and_intelligencehttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diet-induced_obesehttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_variabilityhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_deserthttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chester_M._Southamhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_for_Human_Research_Protectionshttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_fertilityhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transgender_people_in_sportshttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_and_healthBelow you will find a video of the Natural Fertility group giving a guest lecture to the Fall 2016 IntegBio35AC course to introduce the project and show the students what the beginning and end of the Wikipedia Project looks like.  The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. International & Area Studies 158AC - Social Movements, Urban Histories, and the Politics of MemoryInstructor: Sean BurnsSemester: Spring 2015 - Fall 2016Dr. Sean Burns, winner of the Chancellor's Public Service Public Service-Learning Leadership Award, developed the ACES course International & Area Studies 158AC, "Social Movements, Urban Histories, and the Politics of Memory." This course surveys the history of progressive social movements in the San Francisco Bay Area.  In addition, by combining history, sociology, urban geography, and ethnic studies, the course addresses the following questions:As part of the ACES Program, this course engages students in creating social movement documentation in collaboration with Bay Area activists and community organizers. Please click on the images below for sample of the students' work. IPOC’s Shellmound Peace Walks   Black Nationalism in OaklandChilean Solidarity in the BayThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. In 2016, the UC Berkeley Labor Center partnered with the ACES Program to offer an expanded version of the highly successful Labor Summer Internship Program which integrated summer internships with Fall independent research courses. During the Summer, students interned at unions and community groups to address issues such as low wage jobs and other economic justice issues.  During the Fall, students developed this work into research projects by continuing the relationship with their community hosts. Students also integrated their internship experience into their academic work, while learning about pedagogies of community engaged scholarship. The students gave presentations at the end of the Fall semester to discuss their research and summer internships.Tony Morales 2nd year, Social WelfareSite: East Bay Alliance for a Sustainable EconomyWas part of the Voter Outreach Team in the Fruitvale part of Oakland—did outreach and proposition education to community members in Oakland. Teamed up with Oakland Rising to present propositions around the community, and focused on presenting the information in Spanish.John Penilla4th year, HistorySite: UAW Local 2865Helped do outreach and create material for political education on California propositions during election season. Had one-on-on conversations with their membership which includes GSIs, readers, tutorsDiana Kingsbury4th year, Social Welfare with minor in public policySite: UAW Local 2865Focused on outreach and having one-on-one, in-depth, organizing conversations to discover issues that mattered to each member. Also gathered recommendations for best methods of contacting department members.Claudia Ruby Van Natta4th year, Urban StudiesSite: UNITE HERE Local 2850Worked on a casino worker organizing campaign. Made worksite visits to several casinos, hotels, and restaurants and helped with on-site trainings related to immigration. Helped plan and do turnout for various actions related to the campaign.Monet Levelly-Garcia 4th year, SociologySite: Service Employees International Union Local 1021Focused on outreach and education of affordable housing propositions to childcare workers through worksite visits, door knocking and phone banking. Supported events, survey distribution and campaigning.Esme' Freeman5th year, Social WelfareSite: Bay Area Black Worker CenterFocused primarily on the #Jobs4Freedom campaign that assured affirmative hiring for 1,400 formerly incarcerated residents in Alameda County.      The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Music 74AC/139AC - Hip Hop in Urban America Instructor: Sara LappasSemester: Summer 2015Rapping in Mandarin, Berkeley undergrad Vanessa Guo shared the stage with her teenage collaborator, Miyosha, and volunteer Juanita Greene at a lively, outdoor talent showcase last weekend in Richmond. The trio co-wrote the music and lyrics for “Dance with Me,” a hip-hop track about confidence and empowerment, through a partnership between the Richmond youth organization RYSE and a summer music course at Berkeley on the history of hip-hop in urban America.This collaborative partnership was presented in a colloquium on March 11 utilizing four audio vignettes that incorporate interviews with RYSE youth participants, and feature the music made together with Berkeley students as part of the Summer ACES Course Music 74/139AC .The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Public Health 150E - Introduction to Community Health and Human DevelopmentInstructor: Bill Satariano Semester: Spring 2014- Spring 2016Using the Federal Reserve Bank’s Health and Wealth Inequities Across Bay Area Rapid Transit Stations as a starting point, journalism graduate student Jake Nicol worked with students from Public Health 150E (Introduction to Community Health and Human Development) and Professor Bill Satariano to produce an interactive documentary. The team built a Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) map website with embedded video stories from individual community members and organizations. To highlight the wide range of health inequities, these stories focused on individuals representative of some of the most disparate Bay Area communities in terms of both wealth and health outcomes. Through partnerships with community organizations and in collaboration with the Journalism School, the group gathered data, testimonies, and video components for the project.To learn more, please visit Station to Station: Health Inequities in the Bay AreaThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Sociology 3AC - Principles of Sociology Instructor: Tiffany LintonSemester: Spring 2016 - Spring 2017In ​​Dr. Tiffany Linton Page​'s Sociology 3AC​ ACES course, 'Principles of Sociology​,' students explore ​different patterns of ​racial ​inequalit​ies and ​their origins. ​By pairing classroom learning with field work with community partner experts such as the East Oakland Boxing Association (EOBA) and Restorative Justice for Oakland Youth​ (RJOY), students recognize​ ​how institutions have continually created and reproduced the same patterns of inequality, how ​such institutions have changed, and the affect​s​ social movements and circumstances have played in social change.​ As a part of th​e engaged scholarship component of this course, five students developed a​n online resource guide for girls ​to discover employment​,​ ​health and education resources​ as well ​as women​-​specific resources (including shelters for homeless ​​women and sexual health clinics)​. ​​Please click ​on the categories below for examples of resources developed in Dr. Page's AC course or visit ​the website. The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Theater Dance and Performance Studies 52AC - Reflections of Gender, Culture, and Ethnicity in American DanceInstructor: Krista DeNioSemester: Summer 2015In Summer 2015, AC Faculty, Choreographer/ Director and Community Engaged Artist, Krista DeNio partnered with ACES and Theater Dance and Performance Studies (TDPS), and several programs on campus, including Cal's Re-entry Student and Veteran Services program, Urban Scholars Initiative, and Underground Scholars Initiative, to create the ACES course, TDPS 52AC, 'Reflections of Gender, Culture, and Ethnicity in American Dance.' In this course, students learn how lineages of white privilege create dominant frameworks through which the performing arts are legitimized, viewed, written about, and documented. Viewpoints and strategies are offered to address critical multicultural concerns, along with multiple ways to understand how dance reflects, shapes, contends with and negotiates issues of racial, cultural, gender and ethnic identity in the United States.Students were able to meet with guest speakers who shared their experiences as U.S. military veterans and formerly incarcerated individuals.  Students then developed their own creative responses which they presented as performances in class to community members which expressed and shared factual and experiential information about different campus community organizations. Their performances explored ideas about how community engagement can both demystify difference and systemic oppression, and drive education for members of served and underserved communities. Below are videos of the students' final presentations and course community partners.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. International & Area Studies 158AC - Social Movements, Urban Histories, and the Politics of MemoryInstructor: Sean BurnsSemester: Spring 2015 - Fall 2016Dr. Sean Burns, winner of the Chancellor's Public Service Public Service-Learning Leadership Award, developed the ACES course International & Area Studies 158AC, "Social Movements, Urban Histories, and the Politics of Memory." This course surveys the history of progressive social movements in the San Francisco Bay Area.  In addition, by combining history, sociology, urban geography, and ethnic studies, the course addresses the following questions:As part of the ACES Program, this course engages students in creating social movement documentation in collaboration with Bay Area activists and community organizers. Please click on the images below for sample of the students' work. IPOC’s Shellmound Peace Walks   Black Nationalism in OaklandChilean Solidarity in the BayThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. ACES courses represent corners of campus that highlight the intent of the AC requirement, while also deepening the meaning of that intent through a combination of multi-disciplinary research and praxis, the development of students and community partners as co-educators, mentoring opportunties, and an increased and sustained accesibility of information.Please refer to our ACES course list for past and current courses. To learn about projects have developed with ACES community partners, please visit the ACES Student Community Projects. The ACES Program provides support for faculty to incorporate community-based learning into new or revised AC courses. If you are a faculty member interested in developing or continuing an ACES course, please visit our Grants page.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. We are pleased to announce that it is now offering course development grants of up to $1,500 to assist in the design of an AC course. Such course development might build on an existing course offering, but which is currently non-AC in status, or alternatively assist with the development of a new course which has yet to be offered.  Funding support may be requested in three categories:(i) materials, which might include photocopying and printing, books and supplies(ii) student hourly help, to assist with for example, digitizing materials (e.g., slides, maps, manuscripts, photographs), bibliographical and syllabi searches, or assignment-related research(iii) general course enhancement, for example, assessment tool creation, social media assignment development, guest speaker honorarium, field site visits and transportation costs, student project support.Apply via email: download the below file in Word format and send back the completed application (in the body of an email or as an attachment) to americancultures@berkeley.edu.Download application.The MRC and The AC Center are pleased to announce the ‘Multimedia Teaching and Learning’ Initiative and its ‘Fellows’ program. The fellowship will allow faculty and graduate students to enrich course instruction by working with media based resources from the MRC. And before the use of DVD’s is history, participants will learn how to create ‘clips’ from some of their favorite and yet to be found favorite DVD’s in the MRC. Members will participate in a one-semester fellowship and receive a onetime grant of $500 at the end of the term and an honorary certificate from the AC Center. Below are the expectations and responsibilities for the fellows:Work to identify relevant clips from feature films, educational documentaries and/or audio based media from the MRC and Berkeley Language CenterDevelop a familiarity with the LFLFC (Library of Foreign Language Film Clips) interface, including searching, clipping, metadata and annotation featuresLearn how to embed video in bCoursesIf you are interested in learning more about the fellowship, please feel free to contact Gisele Tanasse (nerdpower@berkeley.edu(link sends e-mail)) and/or drop in during office hours: Academic Innovation Studio, 117 Dwinelle, this Wednesday (and every other 1st Wednesday of the month) from 10am-12pm.   For a list of of the materials provided in this workshop, please visit the guide for tools and links(link is external) page, which includes links to the LFLFC, our clip prep worksheet and our terms list.ACES provides support for faculty to incorporate community-based learning into new or revised AC courses.  Faculty selected as Chancellor’s Public Scholars receive a faculty research grant of $3000, up to $1500 in additional funds for community project costs, logistical support for the implementation of the course from one or more undergraduate or graduate students serving as Chancellor’s Public Fellows and staff consulting services.  Faculty and students are offered broad based campus support including an intensive 2-day Summer Institute, 2-3 brown-bag meetings per semester, an annual symposium and workshops and meetings throughout the year (past workshops topics have included: tenure and promotion; technology and community based-projects; syllabus development and community based research projects.  There are a number of substantial course development and partnership project support documents available through the UC Berkeley Public Service Center, including:Faculty ResourcesThe Handbook for Designing Community Based CoursesThe Experiential Learning GuidelineTake a look at our past and current ACES courses.The AC Center is now welcoming proposals for 2015-16 year.  Although we welcome all proposal, and especially encourage proposals that address K-12 education, environmental justice, the arts, public health, and/or suggest collaborations with partners in Richmond or with previous ACES community organizations.  If you are interested in discussing these options, please contact Victoria Robinson.Expectations for 2015-2016 Chancellor's Public Scholars:UC Berkeley faculty selected to serve as 2015 Chancellor’s Public Scholars are expected to develop new or revised American Cultures courses to be taught in Fall 2015 or Spring 2016.Proposed courses must clearly meet the curricular expectations of the American Cultures program and funds will not be released until the course is approved by the American Cultures faculty sub-committee.Attend an intensive all day ACES Institute 9:00-3:00 on either Friday, February 27th or Saturday February 28th (to be confirmed based on teaching schedules). The ACES Institute is designed to provide faculty with the opportunity to develop, broaden, or deepen their research and teaching of community-engaged scholarship.Attend 1-2 cohort meetings in both Spring 2015 and Fall 2015 semesters for faculty and students to address developing needs and ideasConduct ACES pre- and post- assessment in coursesThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. AC course syllabus preparation & submission guidelines:There is no "template" for an American Cultures Course.  A 'completely developed syllabus' necessarily includes a complete list of assignments, details regarding weekly lecture/discussion topics, and a reading list.  The Subcommittee’s expectations may be summed up by the three "questions" posted within the AC Course Approval Guidelines:"Does the course address theoretical and analytical issues relevant to understanding race, culture, and ethnicity?" How?"Is the course integrative and comparative within the larger context of American society, history, culture, economy, or environment?" How?"Does the course take substantial account of groups drawn from at least three of the following: African Americans, indigenous peoples of the United States, Asian Americans, Chicanos/Latinos, and European Americans?" How is each group incorporated into the course? Please visit the extended AC Subcommittee Senate guidelines for the approval of courses meeting the American Cultures requirement.Submitting materials to the Senate:In order to make a decision, the Subcommittee needs instructors to submit the following:A cover letter answering, in detail, the three questions from the guidelines. Cover letters should also offer details regarding the actual materials used in the classroom. A completely developed syllabus.The Subcommittee strongly suggests that instructors consult with Dr. Robinson prior to submitting their final materials.   Once your materials are ready for submission, you should send them directly to the Academic Senate in 320 Stephens Hall #5842. Historical list of approved AC courses: At Berkeley | At other collegesSenate Committee Meeting DatesMeeting dates for the American Cultures Subcommittee Review Sessions can be found on the Academic Senate's Meeting Dates page. For additional Information on how to create or submit a new AC course, please visit the Academic Senate's Creating & Submitting a New AC Course page.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. We are pleased to announce that it is now offering course development grants of up to $1,500 to assist in the design of an AC course. Such course development might build on an existing course offering, but which is currently non-AC in status, or alternatively assist with the development of a new course which has yet to be offered.  Funding support may be requested in three categories:(i) materials, which might include photocopying and printing, books and supplies(ii) student hourly help, to assist with, for example, digitizing materials (e.g., slides, maps, manuscripts, photographs), bibliographical and syllabi searches, or assignment-related research(iii) general course enhancement, for example, assessment tool creation, social media assignment development, guest speaker honorarium, field site visits and transportation costs, student project support.Apply via email: download the below file in Word format and send back the completed application (in the body of an email or as an attachment) to americancultures@berkeley.edu.Download application.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. The American Cultures Engaged Scholarship Program supports the development of courses and initiatives that emphasize public scholarship and engage students in community-based projects.The American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program:Launched in January 2010, the ACES program is a partnership between the American Cultures Center (http://americancultures.berkeley.edu) and the Public Service Center (http://publicservice.berkeley.edu) This program aims to transform how faculty’s community-engaged scholarship is valued, to enhance learning for students through a combination of teaching and practice, and to create new knowledge that has an impact both in the community and the academy.The American Cultures (AC) requirement—the only campus-wide breadth requirement on the UC Berkeley campus—was passed by the Academic Senate in 1989 and instituted as a campus requirement in 1991 to help students gain a deeper understanding of the diverse cultures of the United States through an integrative and comparative framework. These goals are extended through community-focused and collaborative research and teaching.In the 2017 proposal cycle, several priorities have been emphasized to support community-engaged scholarship directly benefiting undergraduate education. Including the ongoing support for AC courses which engage students directly in community-based projects, the ACES program expands its consideration of community-based teaching and research. Proposals are therefore welcomed in ONE of the following five categories.Application Categories for 2017-2018 ACES Program:The development of a new or revised American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) course to be taught in Fall 2017, Spring 2018, or Fall 2018 (Funding: $3000 grant to faculty, $1500 for student fellow, $1500 to support community project implementation)Continuation of existing ACES courses and projects where learning goals are met using community-engaged scholarship and are integrated in a significant manner within the course curriculum. (Funding: up to $3000)A departmental initiative, e.g. brown bag or workshop series, to consider the role of existing and development of future community-engaged programs.  (Funding: up to $3000)The appointment of a graduate student to support community-based outreach, teaching, and course partnership development. (Funding: up to $15,000)Multi-disciplinary efforts engaging the same community-based partnerships. (Funding: up to $15,000)Benefits of Participation:The ACES program is designed to provide faculty with the opportunity to develop, broaden, or deepen their research and teaching of community-engaged scholarship.Participants receive and gain:intensive training and consulting from and with the ACES and Public Service Center stafffunds of up to $15,000 for costs related to course community projects, graduate student hire, and community-based project development (as detailed per application category above)opportunities to present research and best practices at an on-campus ACES seminarnew relationships with an interdisciplinary cohort of facultyenhanced capacity to build and sustain long-term relationships with community partnersthe opportunity to mentor undergraduate and graduate students in the development of community-based partnershipPlease refer to the ACES 2017-18 Application and submit by June 26th at 5 pm, to americancultures@berkeley.edu(link sends e-mail).Any questions can also be directed to ACES Program Director, Victoria Robinson at americancultures@berkeley.edu(link sends e-mail)There are a number of substantial course development and partnership project support documents available through the UC Berkeley Public Service Center, including:Faculty Resources.The Handbook for Designing Community Based Courses.The Experiential Learning Guideline.Take a look at our past and current ACES courses.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. 1.) Visit the Berkeley Academic Guide. 2.) Select American Cultures under the General Requirements tab from the Menu on the left. 3.) Select any relevant options from the Menu, such as Spring 2017 under the Term tab.  For a list of historically approved AC courses at UC Berkeley, please visit List of Historically Approved Courses.If you are still having trouble finding a list of courses, please contact us.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Awarded since 2008, the American Cultures Student Prize provides students with the opportunity to highlight work taken in an American Cultures course which promotes understanding of race, ethnicity, and culture. The prize also recognizes student’s work as a standard of excellence in scholarshipTo learn more about our previous recipients, please click on the images on the right.Deadline: April 14th, 2017The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. "American Cultures is more than just a requirement, it's an opportunity to make deep connections within our lives, communities and the U.S by critically engaging in topics such as racial and social equity."In the late 1980s, UC Berkeley students fought for the AC Requirement as a way to create a more inclusive undergraduate curriculum that reflected the diverse campus community. Today, the AC Requirement critically engages and exposes students to important issues of inequality throughout the United States by helping them develop a deeper understanding of race, culture, and ethnicity in the context of American society.Students may satisfy the requirement by taking an approved course at UC Berkeley or at Community College. Additionally, students can submit a petition to the Academic Senate to have a non-AC course approved for credit. For more information about satisfying the AC requirement, please visit our Courses page. Some American Cultures courses, known as 'ACES' courses, allow students to use concepts learned in class to address societal issues through partnerships with community organizations such as Urban Tilth, Sierra Club, the East Oakland Boxing Association, East Bay Sanctuary Covenant, Restorative Justice for Oakland Youth and many more.To learn more about these courses, please visit our ACES page.Please visit our FAQ Page to read responses to our most frequently asked questions.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. American Cultures courses are uniquely designed to critically engage in important issues within the United States by helping students develop a deeper understanding of race, culture, and ethnicity in the context of American society. If you would like to learn more about the history of American Cultures courses, please visit our History of AC page. Our courses are offered in more than 40 departments and programs across UC Berkeley, and can additionally be used to satisfy University requirements such as the Humanities and Social Science Breadth requirements. To learn more, visit our How to Satisfy the AC Requirement page.Some American Cultures courses provide opportunities for students to participate in collaborative social justice projects alongside community organizations. These courses are called American Cultures Engaged Scholarship courses (ACES). Examples of ACES projects include developing apps and wiki pages that promote social justice, mentoring K-12 at-risk youth, among others to create community impact. If you would like to learn more about ACES student projects, please visit our Student Projects page. To find a current list of courses that satisfy the AC requirement at UC Berkeley, please visit Finding AC Courses.For a list of historically approved AC courses at UC Berkeley, please visit List of Historically Approved Courses at UC BerkeleyFor a list of historically approved AC courses at other colleges or programs, please visit List of Historically Approved Courses at Other CollegesAre you looking for help with your research for an AC course project?  Our AC Librarian, Corliss Lee, is happy to help you discover and explore library resources for your project.  To set up an appointment, please email her at clee@library.berkeley.edu.We also encourage you to explore other projects students have developed in past AC courses, in our ACES Student Projects page, or our EScholarship site to read about other students' award winning research projects. For further information, please visit our Frequently Asked Questions page.  The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. American Cultures courses can be taken at any time during a student's undergraduate career at Berkeley, but we strongly urge students to meet the requirement as early as possible.  Students must receive a grade no lower than C- or P to satisfy the requirement. For a list of courses that satisfy the AC requirement at UC Berkeley, please visit the UC Berkeley Classes website(link is external).If you are looking for a list of approved American Cultures courses offered at UC Berkeley since 1991, please visit the Academic Senate's list.AC courses may also be taken "off-campus" at a community college or a partner institution. For a list of approved courses, please visit the Academic Senate's list, or refer to assist.org. Students also may submit a petition form to the Academic Senate if they believe a specific course satisfies the American Cultures Requirement. The AC curriculum has been specially developed to enrich the student experience at UC Berkeley, and as such, is a unique reflection of UC Berkeley faculty's expertise in fields related to issues of critical diversity studies. However, there are instances in which courses offered at other educational institutions also formulate experiences which meet the expectations of the AC requirement at UC Berkeley. In this case, students have the option of submitting a petition to the Academic Senate, to have a non-AC course they have taken and successfully passed, if they believe that course satisfies the AC requirement.It is important to keep in mind, that just because a non-AC course "looks" or "feels” like an AC course this does not mean that a petition will be approved by the Academic Senate.  AC courses are governed by a very specific regulation that is interpreted and applied by the Academic Senate’s Subcommittee on the Breadth Requirement in American Cultures.Please note, a separate campus entity, the Academic Senate Subcommittee, reviews all student petitions, not the AC Center.  Student petitions are rigorously reviewed, and the Subcommittee applies the highest standards of college-level course material, course readings, and analytical skills required for course assignments. Therefore, serious consideration should be given to the strength of a substitution request before an individual submits a petition.Basic Information: The AC Subcommittee meets once a month on Fridays during the fall and spring semesters. Student petitions must be received by 4 p.m. on the Friday before the scheduled meeting.For a list of meetings, please visit http://academic-senate.berkeley.edu/committees/amcult.To download a petition form, please visit http://academic-senate.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/committees/amcult/amcult_studentpetition_10.2016_0.pdf.All materials should be submitted directly to the Academic Senate in 320 Stephens Hall #5842. Students will receive a written response from the Academic Senate within two weeks of the meeting when the petition was reviewed.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Awarded since 2008, the American Cultures Student Prize provides students with the opportunity to highlight work taken in an American Cultures course which promotes understanding of race, ethnicity, and culture. The prize also recognizes student’s work as a standard of excellence in scholarshipTo learn more about our previous recipients, please click on the images on the right.Deadline: April 14th, 2017The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. American Cultures courses are uniquely designed to critically engage in important issues within the United States by helping students develop a deeper understanding of race, culture, and ethnicity in the context of American society. If you would like to learn more about the history of American Cultures courses, please visit our History of AC page. Our courses are offered in more than 40 departments and programs across UC Berkeley, and can additionally be used to satisfy University requirements such as the Humanities and Social Science Breadth requirements. To learn more, visit our How to Satisfy the AC Requirement page.Some American Cultures courses provide opportunities for students to participate in collaborative social justice projects alongside community organizations. These courses are called American Cultures Engaged Scholarship courses (ACES). Examples of ACES projects include developing apps and wiki pages that promote social justice, mentoring K-12 at-risk youth, among others to create community impact. If you would like to learn more about ACES student projects, please visit our Student Projects page. To find a current list of courses that satisfy the AC requirement at UC Berkeley, please visit Finding AC Courses.For a list of historically approved AC courses at UC Berkeley, please visit List of Historically Approved Courses at UC BerkeleyFor a list of historically approved AC courses at other colleges or programs, please visit List of Historically Approved Courses at Other CollegesAre you looking for help with your research for an AC course project?  Our AC Librarian, Corliss Lee, is happy to help you discover and explore library resources for your project.  To set up an appointment, please email her at clee@library.berkeley.edu.We also encourage you to explore other projects students have developed in past AC courses, in our ACES Student Projects page, or our EScholarship site to read about other students' award winning research projects. For further information, please visit our Frequently Asked Questions page.  The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. ACES courses represent corners of campus that highlight the intent of the AC requirement, while also deepening the meaning of that intent through a combination of multi-disciplinary research and praxis, the development of students and community partners as co-educators, mentoring opportunties, and an increased and sustained accesibility of information.Please refer to our ACES course list for past and current courses. To learn about projects have developed with ACES community partners, please visit the ACES Student Community Projects. The ACES Program provides support for faculty to incorporate community-based learning into new or revised AC courses. If you are a faculty member interested in developing or continuing an ACES course, please visit our Grants page.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones.       The following are courses that feature interviews with faculty members discussing how their classes bring their research interests with community partners together to teach undergraduates. Please visit each page to learn more about the course.Engineering 157AC / International and Area Studies 157AC: Engineering, The Environment, and Society at UC Berkeley will challenge students to look beyond the technical elements of their work and recognize the deeply social and political nature of engineering questions. For more information visit our Engineering 157AC Spotlight PagePractice of Art W23AC American Cybercultures: Principles of Internet Citizenship examines how the growth of online participation influences the development of and intersects online and residential communities. Students participate in online discussions surrounding internet culture or cyberculture within a modern context as well as categories of personhood that make up the UC Berkeley American Cultures rubric (race and ethnicity), as well as to gender, nation, and disability. For more information pleas visit our Practice of Art W23AC Spotlight PageIn this course, Dr. Burns examines the history of progressive social movements in the San Francisco Bay Area while including topics of history, sociology, urban geography, and ethnic studies. To learn more, visit our IAS 158AC / PACS 148AC Spotlight PageEducation 75AC focuses on sports culture in the U.S. through an intersectional lens. This course highlights the ways in which sports have contributed to our society as well as how they marginalize certain communities through the bases of race, class, gender, sexuality, and ability. To learn more, please visit our Education 75AC Spotlight PageIntegrative Biology 35AC exposes the cultural and historical relevance of biology to both students who may never take another biology class in their lives and scientists that have intimate knowledge of their subject but do not discover its connection within larger contexts. The course is innovative in the way it teaches students how biological variation plays a role in day-to-day life-from interactions on the street, to governmental policies on healthcare and food stamps, to how a doctor interacts with their patients. Visit our Integrative Biology 35AC Spotlight Page to learn more. The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. This Spring, Dr. Khalid Kadir, will be teaching a new ACES course, Engineering 157AC / International and Area Studies 157AC: Engineering, The Environment, and Society at UC Berkeley. The course will challenge students to look beyond the technical elements of their work and recognize the deeply social and political nature of engineering questions. With help from Berkeley Ph.D. student and Chancellor's Public Fellow Lara Cushing, Dr. Kadir has established partnerships with local and regional African-American, Asian-American, and Latino community groups, through which students will have the opportunity to engage in multiple real-world projects affecting these diverse communities. Projects address a variety of environmental and social justice issues including contaminated drinking water, industrial pollution, and air pollution.While both meeting the American Cultures requirement and as part of the ACES program, Engineering 157AC is set to become a signature course within the College of Engineering.  As stated by Associate Dean for Equity and Inclusion, College of Engineering Oscar Dubon, "The College of Engineering is delighted to offer E157AC.  With this course the College has taken an important step forward in affirming that social justice should play a central role in the preparation of our engineering students.  The course also signals the College's commitment to engage a diverse engineering student body that produces technology leaders and innovators who will tackle challenges faced by all communities in our society.  Dr. Kadir is an outstanding instructor, and we are very fortunate to have him on board."This course is part of the American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program bringing the research interests of faculty and community partners together in the teaching of undergraduate courses. Further information and a listing of other ACES courses can be found on our ACES Courses page.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Professor Greg Niemeyer is currently teaching the first AC online course: Practice of Art W23AC American Cybercultures: Principles of Internet Citizenship.  Although Professor Niemeyer has taught this course for over ten years both in an in-person and hybrid format, this Spring marks the first time it is offered completely online. Fittingly enough, the course examines how the growth of online participation influences the development of and intersects online and residential communities. Students participate in online discussions surrounding internet culture or cyberculture within a modern context as well as categories of personhood that make up the UC Berkeley American Cultures rubric (race and ethnicity), as well as to gender, nation, and disability. In addition, students will work in small groups with about five members and complete learning missions through research and creative assignments using technology such as social apps to benefit their communities (visit the social apps lab page for examples of Citrus community development based apps). The course itself intends to establish a community of learners, innovators, and explorers who engage with 23 principles of internet culture through missions. The missions include topics aggregation, networking, identity, amplification, and subversion.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Education 75AC: American Sport Culture and EducationEducation 75AC focuses on sports culture in the U.S. through an intersectional lens. This course highlights the ways in which sports have contributed to our society as well as how they marginalize certain communities through the bases of race, class, gender, sexuality, and ability.As part of ACES (American Cultures Engaged Scholarship), the course also works with campus and community partners such as DSP (Disabled Students Program), the Disability Studies minor, Rec Sports, and BORP (Bay Area Outreach and Recreational Program). Find out more about Education 75AC in the video below!The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. This Spring, Dr. Khalid Kadir, will be teaching a new ACES course, Engineering 157AC / International and Area Studies 157AC: Engineering, The Environment, and Society at UC Berkeley. The course will challenge students to look beyond the technical elements of their work and recognize the deeply social and political nature of engineering questions. With help from Berkeley Ph.D. student and Chancellor's Public Fellow Lara Cushing, Dr. Kadir has established partnerships with local and regional African-American, Asian-American, and Latino community groups, through which students will have the opportunity to engage in multiple real-world projects affecting these diverse communities. Projects address a variety of environmental and social justice issues including contaminated drinking water, industrial pollution, and air pollution.While both meeting the American Cultures requirement and as part of the ACES program, Engineering 157AC is set to become a signature course within the College of Engineering.  As stated by Associate Dean for Equity and Inclusion, College of Engineering Oscar Dubon, "The College of Engineering is delighted to offer E157AC.  With this course the College has taken an important step forward in affirming that social justice should play a central role in the preparation of our engineering students.  The course also signals the College's commitment to engage a diverse engineering student body that produces technology leaders and innovators who will tackle challenges faced by all communities in our society.  Dr. Kadir is an outstanding instructor, and we are very fortunate to have him on board."This course is part of the American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program bringing the research interests of faculty and community partners together in the teaching of undergraduate courses. Further information and a listing of other ACES courses can be found on our ACES Courses page.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. This AC Faculty Spotlight features, Dr. Christopher Schmitt, Lecturer in Integrative Biology and Postdoctoral Research in the Human Evolution Research Center.  Dr. Schmitt is currently teaching Integrative Biology 35AC, Human Biological Variation.   This course in order to expose the cultural and historical relevance of biology to both students who may never take another biology class in their lives and scientists that have intimate knowledge of their subject but do not discover its connection within larger contexts. The course is innovative in the way it teaches students how biological variation plays a role in day-to-day life-from interactions on the street, to governmental policies on healthcare and food stamps, to how a doctor interacts with her patients.  Please see the video below for an interview with Dr. Schmitt.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. This spotlight feature includes American Cultures Engaged Scholarship faculty member Dr. Sean Burns's course "Social Movements, Urban History, and the Politics of Memory" (IAS 158AC / PACS 148 AC).  This course examines the extensive multi-racial social movement history of the San Francisco Bay Area. The primary assignment of the course is a student-defined research project where students, in collaboration with local activists and community partner Shaping San Francisco, carry out original research and writing to contribute to the dynamic Bay Area social history website FoundSF.For this course, Burns has won the Chancellor's Faculty Civic Engagement Award (2014) and the American Cultures Teaching Innovation Award (2015). Combining history, sociology, urban geography, and ethnic studies, the course asks questions such as:For their research projects, students have collaborated with dozens of progressive organizations and activists around the Bay including but not limited to:Multiple libraries and archives around the Bay– including their brilliant and generous staff – have vitally supported the student research; for example the Bancroft Library, UC Berkeley’s Ethnic Studies Library, the GLBT Historical Society, the Freedom Archives, KPFA, Docs Populi, and SF State’s Labor Archives and Research Center. For read examples of student projects, please visit the IAS Student Projects page or FoundSF’s archive on Bay Area Social Movements.The East Bay Express has written two stories highlighting Burns’ course:April 2015: "Making History” April 2015: "Tumbling the Ivory Tower”Download a copy of the most recent syllabus for “Social Movements, Urban History, and the Politics of Memory.”The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. UC Berkeley Students | collapse all expand allThe American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. American Cultures courses can be taken at any time during a student's undergraduate career at Berkeley, but we strongly urge students to meet the requirement as early as possible.  Students must receive a grade no lower than C- or P to satisfy the requirement. For a list of courses that satisfy the AC requirement at UC Berkeley, please visit the UC Berkeley Classes website(link is external).If you are looking for a list of approved American Cultures courses offered at UC Berkeley since 1991, please visit the Academic Senate's list.AC courses may also be taken "off-campus" at a community college or a partner institution. For a list of approved courses, please visit the Academic Senate's list, or refer to assist.org. Students also may submit a petition form to the Academic Senate if they believe a specific course satisfies the American Cultures Requirement. The AC curriculum has been specially developed to enrich the student experience at UC Berkeley, and as such, is a unique reflection of UC Berkeley faculty's expertise in fields related to issues of critical diversity studies. However, there are instances in which courses offered at other educational institutions also formulate experiences which meet the expectations of the AC requirement at UC Berkeley. In this case, students have the option of submitting a petition to the Academic Senate, to have a non-AC course they have taken and successfully passed, if they believe that course satisfies the AC requirement.It is important to keep in mind, that just because a non-AC course "looks" or "feels” like an AC course this does not mean that a petition will be approved by the Academic Senate.  AC courses are governed by a very specific regulation that is interpreted and applied by the Academic Senate’s Subcommittee on the Breadth Requirement in American Cultures.Please note, a separate campus entity, the Academic Senate Subcommittee, reviews all student petitions, not the AC Center.  Student petitions are rigorously reviewed, and the Subcommittee applies the highest standards of college-level course material, course readings, and analytical skills required for course assignments. Therefore, serious consideration should be given to the strength of a substitution request before an individual submits a petition.Basic Information: The AC Subcommittee meets once a month on Fridays during the fall and spring semesters. Student petitions must be received by 4 p.m. on the Friday before the scheduled meeting.For a list of meetings, please visit http://academic-senate.berkeley.edu/committees/amcult.To download a petition form, please visit http://academic-senate.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/committees/amcult/amcult_studentpetition_10.2016_0.pdf.All materials should be submitted directly to the Academic Senate in 320 Stephens Hall #5842. Students will receive a written response from the Academic Senate within two weeks of the meeting when the petition was reviewed.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. About the BoardThe AC Student Advisory Board (ACSAB) is an opportunity for undergraduate students to serve as a bridge to the AC Center and the development of the American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program. The AC Student Advisory Board explores concrete issues pertinent to the experience of students as they complete the AC graduation requirement. In mutual support, the AC Center Director, Victoria Robinson, informs the board of relevant issues within the university as well as engages in a dialogue across campuses nationwide. In the past, members of our ACSAB have assisted and participated in AC Center events such as student forums for our anniversary, pedagogical workshops for faculty to conider how to address racial diversity and discrimination in the classroom, as well as creating ASUC Student Senate Bill 25 which secured funding for the ACES Program. Vision StatementThe ACSAB aims to serve the University of California, Berkeley student community as a liaison between the American Cultures Center, the American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program, and the multiple UC Berkeley communities through transparent and efficient communication.  As a board, we will work towards continuously improving and reviewing both the American Cultures requirement and engaged scholarship component that inspires to make the theoretical practical for whom it wishes to serve. We aim to:Please visit, our application form to apply to be a member.The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open BerkeleyStudents may take advantage of our programming by taking courses offered across campus, being a member of our Student Advisory Board or applying for the Student Prize for projects they develop in their AC courses. Our staff recognizes the critical role you play in advising students for exciting opportunities in this unique curriculum.  On this section, you will find information to advise students on the AC Requirement.  The American Cultures Center is proud to offer faculty exciting opportunities such as the possibility to receive a grant to continue, or create an American Cultures course, be awarded for excellence in teaching, and even become a Chancellor's Public Scholar! We provide opportunities for students, faculty and community organizations to collaborate on research-based social justice projects through courses in our American Cultures Engaged Scholarship (ACES) Program.On our Archives page you will discover a repository of historical information for our center including reports, publications, past events, press releases, videos and AC milestones. Last Fall, the Associated Students of the University of California, Berkeley passed Senate Bill (SB) 25 in Support of Public Education and the ACES Program.  SB 25 focuses on the value of undergraduate students learning both within the classroom and engagement with local and regional communities. You may download a PDF copy or read the bill in its entirety below:The American Cultures Center360 Stephens Hall, MC# 1050 Berkeley, CA 94720-1050Phone: (510) 664-7065Fax: (510) 642-9466Email: americancultures@berkeley.eduSubscribe to our NewsletterCopyright © 2017 UC Regents; all rights reservedPowered by Open Berkeley