http://writing.berkeley.edu/article/7-stages-bcourses /n
Chagrin:  “Ugh, I have to learn another LMS?”Procrastination:  “Develop my class first, worry about this later.  Wow, my bathroom sink really needs to be cleaned.”Overwhelmedness:  “OMG!  bCourses is ridiculously detailed and difficult to navigate!  And all that great material I’ve carefully built into bSpace over the years…LOST!”[kick computer]Anger:  “bCourses is trying to dictate the way I teach and how I structure my course!  My glorious pedagogy!  Out out, damned Modules!”Resignation:  “All right, all right.  Let me learn how to work this damn thing.”Accommodation:  “Deep breaths.  Rome wasn’t built in a day.  You don’t have to include everything.  Strip it down, build it up.”Acceptance:  “Oh, I can do that?  And that?  Cool!  And so much easier than bSpace!  My students are having no problem with it, and I can do this…and this…and that! I think I may really like this!” Michael Larkin (College Writing Programs) Writing is generally viewed as one of the “four skills”—speaking, listening, reading, writing—taught and learned in language classes. But learning to write in a foreign language is not about stringing together grammatically and lexically correct sentences, although these are, of course, the tools of the trade. Nor is it about expressing ideas that might equally well be expressed in English. Rather, the challenge is to let yourself, so to speak, be remade in the other language, by trying on the new combinations of words, the new patterns of sound and meaning that it alone can offer. I facilitate this experience by showing students how foreign writers use their language to write themselves into print. I have them experiment with style though “à la manière de” exercises, compose concrete poetry, write multilingual journals, communicate directly with native readers via e-mail or the Internet, and, of course, write academic essays as well. The goals are to foster authorial awareness and the conviction that the choices students make are only in part determined by native speaker use. My job is to show them their room to maneuver between native writer norms and non-native writer creativity.  “African American Life and Culture in the United States” is a lower-division course; typically 40-50% of enrolled students are freshmen. Through the years I have resigned myself to the fact that a hodge-podge of knowledge and sentiments entangle the study of African Americans. To begin to detangle students’ preconceptions, I assign a four- to six-page essay at the end of the third week. This carefully crafted question is grounded in the lectures and assigned readings. In order to answer it successfully, students must muse over issues of historical context, evidence, and diverse opinions. I strongly encourage students to discuss their ideas about the question-related material with other students in the class.Students who follow the script come face-to-face with a range of sensibilities, interpretations, and beliefs about the topic and, more broadly, African American Studies. The act of writing this relatively short essay goads them into critical thinking and intellectual coherence, habits that are essential as they move into the rich and complex terrain of African American studies.  It may seem strange, but in science one of the biggest challenges is not to write in the style of the prose that you read. Many scientists are excellent writers, especially when they write for the public. But usually, when our students consult the scientific literature for term papers and their own research projects, they’re reading the primary literature, which is virtually free of any editorial hand that elevates grace or clarity of expression to any importance. (John McPhee’s books on geology are a delight, but who would consider Newsletters in Stratigraphy absorbing bedtime reading?) So: write as we say, not as we do. In our classes we try to focus on avoiding the poor habits of primary science writing (passive voice, overuse of Latinate verbs, useless copulatives such as “due to,” “the nature of,” and “in and of itself”), and on communicating the logic and intellectual excitement of scientific questions. Good prose follows more easily from good stories, and science has some great stories.  In advanced mathematics graduate courses, I require a survey article on a topic in the area of the course. The paper is meant to be readable by the members of the class. Around the fifth week of the semester, the mathematics librarians give a presentation on electronic searching. Topic proposals are due by the sixth week, first drafts by the eleventh week, and final versions a week before the end of classes. I comment extensively on the drafts, and each final version is also reported on by a student “referee” before I issue a grade. Students are then invited to make further revisions and have their papers posted in a collection on my website. I make a similar assignment in an advanced undergraduate course in mathematical methods of classical mechanics, where the class is a mix of math, science, and engineering majors.I sometimes give a writing assignment in Math 16A, a calculus course populated largely by social and biological science majors, many of whom have weak mathematical backgrounds. My goal in this course is to help the students become “educated consumers” rather than producers of mathematics, so I ask them to read and comment critically on articles about nontraditional (i.e., outside the “hard” sciences) applications of mathematics. This article is inspired by the Harvard Writing Project Bulletin. Originally published: Volume 1 – Number 1 (Spring 2000) Clearly we do care about student writing. Two hundred and forty-eight faculty members showed that by completing a “Faculty Survey on Upper Division Student Writing” in spring 1999. Faculty who teach in departments ranging from History and English to Civil and Environmental Engineering, Physics, and Economics registered their views on student writing.How do faculty use writing in upper division courses, and what instruction or guidance do they provide? What are faculty perceptions of upper division student writing? In what kinds of writing programs or resources might faculty be interested? These are the central questions that the Faculty Survey, created by the College Writing Programs, posed to develop a picture of how we actually use and teach writing in upper division classes across the campus. The essay exam appears to be alive and well at U.C. Berkeley. “Short-answer or essay exam” was the most frequent response to the question, “What kinds of writing do you typically assign in your upper division classes?” This was true for respondents who define their courses as having a “significant writing component” (over 25% of the course grade is based on writing assignments) as well as for those respondents whose courses do not have a significant writing component (25% or less of the course grade is based on writing assignments).But then things gets more complicated and interesting. After “short-answer or essay exam,” the research paper (65.2%), analytical paper or essay (56.7%), and oral presentation/speech (43.3%) are most frequently assigned in courses that have a significant writing component. In courses without a significant writing component, the emphasis is on the project report (32.8%), oral presentation/speech (29.5%), and lab report (24.6%).These findings confirm common sense assumptions about the different demands and genres of different disciplines. That is, in scientific and technical fields, students are doing tasks other than writing—problem sets or lab experiments, for instance—and the writing they are assigned—project and lab reports—reflects the distinctive work of these fields.For many respondents—whether or not their courses have a significant writing component—oral presentation/speech plays an important role. This suggests that our faculty see not only writing but communication in a broad sense as an important part of undergraduate education. While faculty describe various approaches to teaching writing, some central patterns do emerge. Most respondents report combining strategies to address a wide range of topics as they pertain to writing assignments for the course. Typically, faculty use both handouts and class discussion; these might be supplemented with written comments on papers, sample model papers, or office hours. Here are two approaches:“I give handouts and discuss in class how papers should be organized. I encourage brevity and correct grammar. Students exchange papers with partners for comments. These comments are turned in along with the papers….The paper grade depends on the quality of the arguments, completeness, and style.” (Geology and Geophysics)“Each writing assignment is discussed in class, and many also are accompanied by a handout. The discussion and handouts cover style/conventions only minimally….Instead, my orientation covers the structure of the kind of writing that I am requesting, since all my assignments are meant to produce kinds of writing that students might do as professionals in the field. So the assignment handouts and my discussion are explicitly about disciplinary genres.” (Anthropology)In other classes, writing instruction occurs one-on-one, through detailed comments on papers, meetings with faculty and GSIs in office hours, or both.Large lecture courses pose particular challenges for teaching, and especially for writing instruction. With a few hundred students in one class, the intensive one-on-one approach is impossible. Some faculty have incorporated other ways to teach writing in large lecture courses, which include providing detailed guides to writing in the course reader, making sample student papers available on the course website, inviting a librarian to instruct the class on research strategies, and scheduling special “help sections” led by a GSI.GSIs are mentioned frequently; clearly they play a critical role in teaching writing. They lead discussion sections where model papers and handouts are discussed in detail; they discuss ideas for papers and review drafts with students in office hours; and, of course, they respond to and grade papers. Some respondents state they do not teach writing at all. Their comments are terse: one respondent simply says, “They are on their own.” Another explains,” I do not cover any aspects of writing. I expect Berkeley juniors to write well.” For some, course content takes precedence over writing: “emphasis is on scientific content, not writing style!” And a few suggest that time constraints prevent them from covering writing in class.While such comments are few, they may represent the views of many—especially those who chose not to complete the survey because they did not perceive it as pertinent to them. Perhaps these respondents believe that content is the key and can be divorced from expression. Or, they simply may find it difficult to incorporate writing into their courses, suggesting another area to examine: the factors that deter faculty from offering some writing instruction.Overall, the survey reveals that faculty across campus have developed a wide range of ways to assign and teach writing and that, in general, Berkeley faculty devote time and effort to doing so. But it also suggests that faculty wishing to improve student writing have a good deal of work to do in spreading the word about the value of writing in all the disciplines. Gail Offen-Brown (College Writing Programs)Originally published: Volume 1 – Number 1 (Spring 2000)The process of peer editing academic papers makes students stronger writers and improves the quality of the final texts produced. Students receive substantive feedback on their work, encounter other styles of writing, and get a chance to think about their own writing. Here are some basic guidelines for organizing peer groups in your class. These are general suggestions that can be adapted to meet the needs of your particular course. Before class:While students might prefer to select their own partners, determining who will work with whom is integral to the success of peer group editing. I create groups of three to four students with a range of strengths on several criteria—grasp of course materials, outspokenness in section, and comfort with English-language academic writing. Students are required to read their partners’ papers before the next section, and to come prepared with written comments about each paper’s content and structure. I ask students to comment throughout the text as well as in several paragraphs at the paper’s end.Simply asking students to “read” and “comment” will not necessarily produce meaningful commentary on papers. Prepare a handout with guidelines for students to follow in crafting their comments, and suggest how to offer constructive criticism. Be as transparent as possible about why you are having students do this activity. During class:Few students take the time on their own to read their papers aloud. Ask the authors to chose a short selection—approximately one page—a section they feel is unclear, paragraphs where they are working out key ideas, or simply the beginning. It doesn’t take more than a few lines before authors recognize aspects of their paper that need revision that they might not have noticed from just reading silently.Having read the paper, their peers can act as a sounding-board and ask questions (i.e., “What do you mean by…?” or “I think you are saying….What are you trying to say?”).Allow time for the peer editors to discuss their comments, and for authors to ask questions or seek clarification. They can use this as an opportunity to reflect on different styles of writing, and how to effectively convey complex ideas from the course. During this time, you can circulate through groups and talk with students to keep them focused on their papers, to ask them questions, and to provide quick feedback.Depending on group sizes and the lengths of the selections read aloud, peer editing activities typically take between one and a half and two hours in class. After class:Students make revisions for the final draft based on the comments received, and what they hear in reading their own papers aloud. If a student still has unresolved concerns or questions, you can meet individually in office hours.Require students to submit their peer-edited paper with the final draft. You can review the editorial comments to see how students were reading others’ papers, and to determine how much a student revised between the rough draft and final paper.I also ask students to write a short reflection piece (fewer than two hundred words) on the peer editing process. I ask students to think about what this taught them about their own writing, about their experiences editing the work of another. This feedback is invaluable for students, and provides you with potential suggestions on how to reconfigure the exercise in the future. Chris Wetzel (Sociology) Originally Published: Volume 2 – Number 1 (Spring 2001)I teach a variety of writing classes at UC Berkeley–-two that fulfill the University’s Reading and Composition Requirement, an intermediate and an advanced writing class. The intermediate class–-CW 105: Finding Your Voice with Others–-is one in which students read current articles–-academic and journalism–-as well as a little theory–-Marshall McLuhan, Walter Ong, David Post, Lawrence Lessig, Sherry Turkle, Anne Wysocki, etc.-–about new media and technology. Multimodal forms of expression are required, and students write reflective journals with each project submitted, thinking about how the use of technology affects the language we use. And they also think about design related issues: color, shape, image, platform.One purpose of the course is to help students who have fulfilled the R&C Requirement continue to develop academic reading and writing strategies as they learn to hear, appreciate and deploy their own voices. Voice is a slippery concept. Most writing books and manuals take a kind of Grammar Girl approach, which is fine. It’s useful as a starting place. But students enrolled in 105 have read something like this already. Probably more than once. While 105 is not a creative writing class (what kind of writing is not, in some sense, creative? question for another day), I do try to approach the concept of voice in a way that is about something more than style (while it is also, of course, related to style–-see the concept begin to slip and slide?!). I use material that you might more often find in a creative writing course to get the discussion rolling. For example, I might use some passages from Finding Your Writer’s Voice, by Thaisa Frank and Dorothy Wall (a book I love): “Your voice is actually a very ordinary thing. It is just who you are, projected artistically. It is often linked to your speaking voice, and your breath, and the rhythms and sense of pace that you draw on when you are too absorbed in what you are saying to listen to yourself from a distance. It is also linked to your body, the language or dialect you spoke in childhood, and whatever naturally interests you. Your voice is how you write when you don’t have time to be elegant” (5). And later from the same chapter: “A search for voice must always involve a willingness to experience what you already know in a new light” (7).And in 105 that new light often shines from new media. Students are using tools they have, for the most part, never used. They are writing in public. They are taking risks. And so when a student says to me, can I try, can I use, can have an extension, can I use I (yes, dear god, please use I–-use it wisely, don’t over use it, but do not let writing at the University rob you of I). I say yes. We might have a brief discussion (depending on the question), but usually I say yes, try it; yes, you can turn it in late; yes yes yes.I’m not an easy teacher, but I try to be a generous one.How is yes rewarded? (okay, I’ll confess, sometimes it’s not; sometimes I should have probably said no: live and learn)One of the tools students use is Prezi. Here is the product of Ylan Ha’s great imagination, a lot of “can I” and a lot of “yes.” The Iron Dove #1 Jane Hammons (College Writing Programs)This blog entry is reposted with permission from http://landscapesoftheimagination.com/2012/11/30/saying-yes-when-students-ask-can-i/ Students learn about the content, structure, and organization of academic essays. Through in- and out-of-class writing, students work on clarifying topics, organizing arguments, and supporting claims with evidence and reasoning. Students also analyze sentence structure; practice summarizing, paraphrasing, and using citations; and develop editing skills.Students learn about the content, structure, and organization of academic essays. Through in- and out-of-class writing, students work on clarifying topics, organizing arguments, and supporting claims with evidence and reasoning. Students also analyze sentence structure; practice summarizing, paraphrasing, and using citations; and develop editing skills.This intensive, accelerated course satisfies concurrently the UC Entry Level Writing Requirement and the first half (Part A) of the Reading & Composition Requirement. It offers students structured, sustained, and highly articulated practice in the recursive processes entailed in reading, critical analysis, and composing. Readings include imaginative, expository, and argumentative texts comparable in complexity to those encountered in the lower-division curriculum. Texts are chosen to represent views and perspectives of authors from diverse social and cultural backgrounds. Students read five thematically related book-length texts, or the equivalent, drawn from a range of genres, in addition to non-print sources. In response to these materials, they craft numerous short pieces leading up to three to five essays—works that include elements of narration, exposition, and argument. Students write a minimum of 40 pages of prose during this semester and they compose an annotated portfolio that showcases their best work.Note: Specialized sections are available for multilingual student writers. These sections are marked (MSW) below.Unless you’re writing in a notebook for your eyes only, most writing that you do is a public act—you’re writing for an audience, and this helps influence the way you express yourself. In school, this might seem to be an audience of one (the teacher), though the audience is often bigger than that. Outside school, you’re probably writing for audiences all the time, especially in electronic forms: texting friends, emailing your parents, writing status updates and tweets and blog posts and You Tube comments and on and on. What is it that you’re trying to convey to those audiences? In part, whether you mean to or not, you’re conveying a sense of who you are. In this class, we’ll examine the ways in which the Internet and digital modes of expression have affected the way we write and read, and in particular the way these tools influence us and help us to construct an identity, and to what extent that identity could be said to be authentic. And then, by the end of the course, you’ll have compiled not only a printed portfolio of your written work for an audience outside the class, but also a digital trace of yourself as well.It’s Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens (danah boyd); Smarter Than You Think (Clive Thompson); Binti (Nnedi Okorafor); They Say, I Say: The Moves that Matter in Academic Writing, 3rd ed. (Gerald Graff and Kathy Birkenstein); Course Reader. More readings/films to be determined...We often divide gender into two neat categories—male and female—and ignore many questions. Is gender constant or fluid? Is it biologically determined, socially constructed, or both? If gender is at least partially constructed, who or what constructs and maintains the categories, and how fluid or fixed are those categories? What are the advantages and disadvantages of being perceived as male or female, masculine or feminine? And, what happens when people explicitly or implicitly blur the boundaries? This section of College Writing R1A focuses on the ways gender plays out in various areas, such as biology, language, current events, advertising, novels and more.By reading texts representing various disciplines and perspectives, students will examine and critique the way gender impacts our understanding of ourselves, others, and our world. More importantly, student will learn a range of rhetorical strategies to write about these topics in ways that engage their readers.The primary text for this section will be course reader, available from a local copy shop. Other books include:Gilman, Charlotte Perkins. Herland: A Lost Feminist Utopian Novel (ISBN 0-394-73665-6)Graff, Gerald & Cathy Birkenstein. "They Say/ I Say": The Moves That Matter in Academic Writing, 3rd edition (ISBN: 978-0-393-93584-4)Lipson, Charles. Doing Honest Work in College: How to Prepare Citations, Avoid Plagiarism and Achieve Real Academic Success, 2nd Edition (ISBN 978-0226484778)As you develop your voice as a writer in this intensive reading and writing course, we will explore borders—both real and imagined.  We will discuss diverse issues, including identity, culture, law, immigration, race, ethnicity, politics, discrimination, and ethics.  You will engage in close reading/viewing and analysis of a novel, a film, a short story, creative non-fiction, cartoons, photos, and scholarly articles as you become an expert on the topic of identifying a perceived border and discussing when, where, how, and why it is crossed—or straddled.  In this course your writing will include a literary analysis, a rhetorical analysis, a film analysis, and a multimodal online publication of a hybrid piece that merges analysis, narrative, and reflection.Alexie, Sherman.  (2007).  The absolutely true diary of a part-time Indian.  New York: Hatchette Book Group.  ISBN: 978-0-316-01368-0*Fulbeck, Kip.  (2006).  Part Asian: 100% Hapa. San Francisco: Chronicle Books. ISBN 9780811849593*Fulbeck, Kip. (2010).  Mixed: Portraits of multi-racial kids. San Francisco: Chronicle Books. ISBN 9780811874083            *Buy one or both.Graff, Gerald & Birkenstein, Kathy.  (2010).  They say, I say: The moves that matter in academic writing.  (2nd edition).  New York: W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN: 9780393933611Lunsford, Andrea.  (2014). EasyWriter. (5th ed. Spiral Bound).  Boston: St. Martin’s/Bedford. ISBN: 9781457640469 The course material addresses the writings of the African diaspora in a broader definition of the term. It touches on specific themes and ideas from pre-colonial Nigeria to post-colonial Caribbean moving onto the “neo-colonial” New World. The course seeks to define the above terms as concepts and attitudes as exemplified in literature and films. This course focuses primarily on developing your critical thinking, reading and writing skills. It is the first in a two-course sequence that seeks to hone your techniques of expository writing. Basic rhetorical tools such as description, analysis, explanation, narration, speculation and argument are discussed enabling you to share your experiences, information and views with others.  The emphasis all along is on provocative theses, strategies of argument and competent analysis of evidence. Author: Chinua Achebe  Title: Things Fall Apart, ISBN: 0-385-47454-7Author: Jamaica Kincaid  Title: Annie John,​ ISBN: 0-374-52510-2Author: Toni Morrison Title: Sula ISBN: 1-4000-3343-8The crash of thunder. The flash of lightening. The call “It’s alive.” Crazy hair. Thick glasses. Intense eyes. Scientists in popular culture are often portrayed as “mad.” Think Victor Frankenstien. Dr. Moreau, and Doc Brown in Back to the Future. This R1A section will focus on popular images of science and scientists in literature, film, as well as in other media. In addition to interrogating these images, we’ll also consider the role of science in our wider culture. In addition to being portrayed as “mad,” scientists are sometimes portrayed as elitist or isolated in their ivory towers. We’ll also consider the ethics of research and ideas of objectivity and subjectivity. Texts likely to include Mary Shelly’s Frankenstein and Rebecca Skloot’s The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, among others.The expression “coming-of-age” carries provocative associations, such as sexual awakening, disillusionment, and embattlement. This course explores how different cultures and writers make sense of the concept.  Through critical reading, analytical writing, and class discussion, we will examine the values and assumptions underlying constructions of this concept. Our inquiry will be framed by committed participation in all facets of the writing process, including pre-writing activities, drafting, critique, and of course, revision, revision, and revision. Ready Player One, by Ernest Cline, ISBN: 9780307887436We live in a complicated historical moment, and writers from many backgrounds are trying to speak to that that moment means for the future. In this section of College Writing R1A, we will focus on ideas about history and justice, in order to understand the legal, moral, and social contexts for where we go from here as a nation. You will write a range of essays, including persuasive, analytical, timed writing and a profile, to help you develop writing skills that will work across the disciplines at Berkeley and beyond. Bryan Stevenson, Just MercyJohn Lewis, March Vol. 1Jeff Chang, We Gon' Be AlrightCourse reader, onlineBikerstein and Graff, They Say/I SayUnderstanding subjectivity is essential to good writing. When we express ourselves, make an argument, or tell a story, we do so from a subjective position shaped by who we are and where we are, our background and experiences, our thoughts and beliefs, and even how we are feeling in that moment. Subjectivity also plays a foundational role in how we understand and interpret others and the world around us. It shapes our opinions and makes us unique. This class asks students to consider subjectivity through two distinct but related paradigms: witnessing, an act of seeing or otherwise experiencing an event, and testimony, an act of self-expression meant to share or convey opinions on what has been witnessed. The purpose of this class is to introduce practical methods for reading “texts” (print, visual, auditory, social, etc.) and to activate both thought and writing processes to engage with the dynamic issues they raise. Together we will examine a number of short and long texts that draw from and speak to discourses from across the academic disciplines and raise questions concerning subjectivity in acts of witness and testimony. Operating under the premise that our community stands to benefit from a diversity of perspectives and opinions, we will explore different techniques for self-expression and different types of writing with a goal of better understanding our own subject positions, as well as those we encounter. The Well Crafted Sentence (Nora Bacon); The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time (Mark Haddon); Fresh Fruit, Broken Bodies (Seth Holmes); Darkroom: A Memoir in Black and White (Lila Quintero Weaver); Course Reader (on bCourses)This intensive, accelerated course satisfies concurrently the UC Entry Level Writing Requirement and the first half (Part A) of the Reading & Composition Requirement. It offers students structured, sustained, and highly articulated practice in the recursive processes entailed in reading, critical analysis, and composing. Readings include imaginative, expository, and argumentative texts comparable in complexity to those encountered in the lower-division curriculum. Texts are chosen to represent views and perspectives of authors from diverse social and cultural backgrounds. Students read five thematically related book-length texts, or the equivalent, drawn from a range of genres, in addition to non-print sources. In response to these materials, they craft numerous short pieces leading up to three to five essays—works that include elements of narration, exposition, and argument. Students write a minimum of 40 pages of prose during this semester and they compose an annotated portfolio that showcases their best work.Note: Specialized sections are available for multilingual student writers. These sections are marked (MSW) below.Tired of gloom and doom, stress and misery? Let's get happy! We'll explore current psychological research about happiness (centered right here at Cal, believe it or not), engage in activities that make us happy, read happy texts, think happy thoughts, and (yes) write happy papers. From belly laughs to blessings, we'll take the happy road to learning.The Secret Garden (Frances Hodgson Burnett); The How of Happiness: A New Approach to Getting the Life You Want (Sonja Lyubomirsky); The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (Douglas Adams); The Book of the Unnamed Midwife (Meg Elison); Easy Writer: A Pocket Guide (Andrea Lunsford); Style: The Basics of Clarity and Grace (Joseph Williams); Course Reader (online)How do we define identity? How do we form our identity and what affects it? In this class, we’ll explore how we see ourselves and how others perceive us based on space, stereotypes, expectations and language. Key concepts we’ll focus on are public places vs. private spaces, authenticity and commercialization, gentrification, and language acquisition. Students will examine a variety of texts- writing assignments will include a film analysis, persuasive essay and a multimodal blog essay.Space & Place (Tuan)The Search for General Tso (Cheney)In Other Words (Lahiri)How to Kill a City (Moskowitz)Course Reader In this course, you will hone your reading, writing, and critical thinking skills by exploring the intersection between economics and morality. Freakonomics authors Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner explain the terms thusly: "If morality represents how we would like the world to work, economics represents how it actually does work". You will develop techniques for effectively reading and writing a variety of texts as you answer questions such as: Is the news a public service or a commercial product? Is piracy a good thing? Do movies with sex and violence make more money at the box office? What happens to the moral message of America's most infamous liberal protest novel when a politically conservative studio adapts it to a film? How does your name affect your prospects in life? Why don't more people use environmentally friendly vehicles? and more. The course includes readings from a variety of authors of diverse backgrounds. You will write at least 40 pages of polished prose, divided among 4-6 essays. How do we define identity? How do we form our identity and what affects it? In this class, we’ll explore how we see ourselves and how others perceive us based on space, stereotypes, expectations and language. Key concepts we’ll focus on are public places vs. private spaces, authenticity and commercialization, gentrification, and language acquisition. Students will examine a variety of texts- writing assignments will include a film analysis, persuasive essay and a multimodal blog essay.Space & Place (Tuan)The Search for General Tso (Cheney)In Other Words (Lahiri)How to Kill a City (Moskowitz)Course Reader A hallmark of humanity is our extraordinary creativity, born and nurtured within the natural world. Yet human industry and development have resulted in the alarming loss of nature, accelerating in the last 150 years, along with climate change. What obligations do we have to other species, ecosystems, each other, and coming generations? How can wild nature be conserved or restored? What can industrialized peoples learn from traditional cultures? What can we learn from ‘eco-thinkers,’ past and present, whose vision has transcended the narrow confines of human-centered striving and conflict to embrace earth’s wonders? These are some of the questions we will pursue through reading a variety of writers (scientists, social thinkers, journalists, poets, activists, and others) and through films and art. And you will have the opportunity to develop your perspectives through writing and lively discussion. (May change; please do not purchase in advance) The Writer’s Diet: A Guide to Fit Prose (Helen Sword), A Modest Genius (Hanne Strager), Sharing the Earth (Elizabeth Ammons), Course Reader.  In this course, you will hone your reading, writing, and critical thinking skills by exploring the intersection between economics and morality. Freakonomics authors Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner explain the terms thusly: "If morality represents how we would like the world to work, economics represents how it actually does work". You will develop techniques for effectively reading and writing a variety of texts as you answer questions such as: Is the news a public service or a commercial product? Is piracy a good thing? Do movies with sex and violence make more money at the box office? What happens to the moral message of America's most infamous liberal protest novel when a politically conservative studio adapts it to a film? How does your name affect your prospects in life? Why don't more people use environmentally friendly vehicles? and more. The course includes readings from a variety of authors of diverse backgrounds. You will write at least 40 pages of polished prose, divided among 4-6 essays. The course material addresses the writings of the African diaspora in a broader definition of the term. It touches on specific themes and ideas from pre-colonial Nigeria to post-colonial Caribbean moving onto the “neo-colonial” New World. The course seeks to define the above terms as concepts and attitudes as exemplified in literature and films. This course focuses primarily on developing your critical thinking, reading and writing skills. It is the first in a two-course sequence that seeks to hone your techniques of expository writing. Basic rhetorical tools such as description, analysis, explanation, narration, speculation and argument are discussed enabling you to share your experiences, information and views with others.  The emphasis all along is on provocative theses, strategies of argument and competent analysis of evidence. Author: Chinua Achebe  Title: Things Fall Apart, ISBN: 0-385-47454-7Author: Jamaica Kincaid  Title: Annie John,​ ISBN: 0-374-52510-2Author: Toni Morrison Title: Sula ISBN: 1-4000-3343-8Psychiatry tells us that madness is “mental illness.” We may welcome this point of view when we are desperate to avoid suffering. But what are some of the other stories we tell? For example, what happens when we disagree whether someone is sick or not? Or when we explain the cause of madness in competing ways? Furthermore, not all madness is bad. Aristotle observes that “no excellent soul is exempt from a mixture of madness,” and some artistic work, such as Sarah Kane’s 4.48 Psychosis, demonstrates its fecundity with stark beauty. Madness may entice us with its mystery, individuality, insight, or power. When we look at madness in culture, we see that it is not a simple, stable, objective medical condition but rather also a fluid social construction borne out of the stories we tell, the images we make, and the values we ascribe. Through your critical reading and writing about visual art, literature, films, theater, medicine, the law, and the news media, you will join these larger conversations and share your own responses, questions, and ideas on what it means to be mad and how we might think and feel about it.Course ReaderGraff, Gerald & Cathy Birkenstein. "They Say/ I Say": The Moves That Matter in Academic Writing, 2nd or 3rd edition (ISBN: 978-0-393-93584-4)Kane, Sarah. 4.48 Psychosis (ISBN: 0413748308)Kesey, Ken. One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest (ISBN: 978-0-143-12951-6)Penhall, Joe. Blue/Orange (ISBN: 1408140918)This intensive, accelerated course satisfies concurrently the UC Entry Level Writing Requirement and the first half (Part A) of the Reading & Composition Requirement. It offers students structured, sustained, and highly articulated practice in the recursive processes entailed in reading, critical analysis, and composing. Readings include imaginative, expository, and argumentative texts comparable in complexity to those encountered in the lower-division curriculum. Texts are chosen to represent views and perspectives of authors from diverse social and cultural backgrounds. Students read five thematically related book-length texts, or the equivalent, drawn from a range of genres, in addition to non-print sources. In response to these materials, they craft numerous short pieces leading up to three to five essays—works that include elements of narration, exposition, and argument. Students write a minimum of 40 pages of prose during this semester and they compose an annotated portfolio that showcases their best work.Note: Specialized sections are available for multilingual student writers. These sections are marked (MSW) below.These aren't the droids you're looking for.This course develops students' ability to edit their own writing and to identify high-frequency, non-idiomatic uses of English. Intensive practice will be provided for students according to their individual needs.This course in creative writing focuses on the craft of reading and writing creative nonfiction. The course provides an introduction to craft: how creative nonfiction is generated, what its elements are, and how finished pieces work. Students explore these aspects of craft through careful study of models by published writers, and through writing and revising their own short pieces. Creative nonfiction is the dominant literary form of our time. Over 2/3 of books on the best-seller list, in addition to thousands of essays in magazines, newspapers and blogs demonstrate the urgency of truth-telling today. The "creative" in creative nonfiction refers to craft rather than imagination: creative nonfiction uses literary techniques to engage readers in true stories. This course in creative writing focuses on the craft of reading and writing creative nonfiction. The course provides an introduction to craft: how creative nonfiction is generated, what its elements are, and how finished pieces work. Students explore these aspects of craft through careful study of models by published writers, and through writing and revising their own short pieces.Over the course of the semester, you will write three creative nonfiction essays: a personal essay, a profile, and a researched nonfiction essay. Each essay will build off of short exercises and take into consideration literary techniques demonstrated in the books we will read. Because creative nonficton is a genre that's open to a vast variety of topics, this means students from all majors can use this class to learn how write about their passions and interests for a wide audience.James Baldwin, Notes of A Native SonRebecca Solnit, Hope in the DarkJoan Didion, The White AlbumPhillip Lopate, The Art of the Personal EssayCall and Kramer, Telling True StoriesThis course in creative writing focuses on the fundamentals of reading and writing dramatic scripts. Students learn dramatic writing as an art and as a set of skills. They learn the elements involved in the creation of scripts by analyzing published scripts, as well as by drafting their own scripts and critiquing their peers' work. Particular emphasis is given to the work of generating and revising drafts, in addition to the critique and appreciation of works written for the stage, and to a lesser degree, for the screen. This introduction to craft is applicable to stage scripts as well as screenplays.This course is an introduction to the craft of dramatic writing through the study of works by professional playwrights and through composition and revision of your own playscripts. You will come to understand dramatic writing as an art and as a set of skills; you will receive an introduction to some of the elements involved in the creation of written scripts. Particular emphasis will be given to the work of generating and revising writing, in addition to the critique and appreciation of works written for the stage and, to a lesser degree, for the screen.Naked Playwriting (Downs & Russin), The Poetics (Aristotle), This Is Our Youth (Lonergan), The Flick (Baker), Disgraced (Akhtar)This strictly introductory course presumes no formal training of any kind. Emphasis is on organization and delivery, with the goal of improving control over speaking habits and enunciation. A further goal is to introduce students to the foundation of rhetorical theory that underpins the practice of public speaking.How do you feel about speaking in public?  Are you petrified by fear?  Do you love the attention?  Do you wish people would listen to what you have to say? Maybe you want your audience to cry, to laugh, or to spring into action.  Maybe you want to sell a product, convey an idea, or get a job.  Maybe you just want to toast your best friend's wedding.  Sometime, somewhere, you're going to be standing in front of a bunch of strangers who are all waiting for you to open your mouth and dazzle them. This class will help you shine. Lucas, Stephen E.  The Art of Public Speaking.  Boston: McGraw-Hill.  Any edition, including digital or very old used editions.This course focuses on teaching philosophies, course designs, instructional methods, and assessment issues in relation to teaching composition in a pluralistic setting. CW 375 meets the campus policy requiring GSIs who teach Reading & Composition courses to complete a semester-long, graduate-level pedagogy course.This course is designed to familiarize you with the major approaches and theoretical underpinnings relevant to the teaching reading and composition (R&C) (or other fields involving writing) at the post-secondary level. We will review various topics in composition pedagogy, considering both theory and practice in the teaching of reading and writing.  This course is 2 units, S/U, and restricted to graduate students with GSI appointments or who plan to have a GSI appointment.We will focus on teaching philosophies, course designs, instructional methods, and assessment issues in relation to teaching composition with diverse populations.The St. Martin’s Guide to Teaching Writing, 7th Edition. C. Glenn & M.A. Goldthwaite, Bedford-St. Martins, 2013. Other readings,  provided through bCourses.In this seminar, we will read, discuss, and write about the American educational system, especially within a multicultural context. The goal is to deepen the understanding of the history, diversity, and values of American educational institutions, while strengthening reading and seminar participation skills through synthesis, critique and analysis.This course is partially intended to introduce international students to U.S. educational policy, debates, and history, but all students are welcome. The best class is one that allows for dialogue between internationally- and U.S.-educated students from diverse backgrounds. Important: Although this class is offered by College Writing Programs, it is not a writing class. Students will, of course, do several short writing assignments, but class time will not be spent in discussing writing techniques, etc. Out-of-class conference times will be available for students who want to discuss their papers for the course. In this course, students will:These aims will be addressed in the following ways:Breadth Requirement: This course satisfies the University's American Cultures RequirementThis course can be applied toward the Education Minor.CWP does far more than administer the on-campus AWP Exam and teach the intensive, accelerated R1A that simultaneously satisfies the University's California Entry Level Writing Requirement and Composition Requirement. CWP offers a range of valuable and unique courses designed for students of all levels - from freshman to graduate students - that will suit your needs and interests and will help you effectively express your ideas and thoughtfully deploy your words.Fall 2017 class schedule [PDF]  |  Spring 2018 class schedule [PDF]View our complete Course Catalog.This downloadable document provides information on how to help students improve their writing, including a series of "Tip Sheets" on writing for students, which may be duplicated and distributed. The tips are geared specifically for UC Berkeley instructors who assign writing in their courses, but who do not teach writing classes.Information on how to help student improve their writing.This information fair for faculty takes place annually on campus, offering advice and resources for teaching multingual and international students.  For handouts from past fairs, see the links to PDFs below.  A complete list of all CWP coursesA list of CWP courses for multilingual and international students 15% of UC Berkeley undergraduates are international students.25% of undergraduates are immigrant and/or US-born students who identify a language other than English as their native tongue.Information about this diverse population:PDF: Multilingual Student Writer Population (2015)PDF: International Student Concerns and Programming (2015)PDF: Working with F-1 and J-1 International Students (2015) PDF: Participation Survey (2014)PDF: Encouraging Student Participation in the University Classroom (2015)PDF: 17 Collaborative Learning Methods (2015)PDF: Collaborative Conferencing with Second-Language Writers (2015)PDF: Improving Critical Reading (2015)PDF: Digital Tools for Students and Faculty (2015) PDF: Word Choice and Vocabulary Development (2015)PDF: What You Need to Know about a Word to Use It Correctly in Your Writing (2015) PDF: Marking Grammar Errors in Student Writing (2015)PDF: Editing Strategies to Share with Your Students (2015) PDF: Supporting Students' Understanding of Academic Honesty (2014)PDF: Is it Paraphrasing, or Is It Plagiarism? (2014)PDF: Promoting Academic Honesty (2015) PDF: Resources for Faculty Teaching Multilingual and International Students (2014)PDF: General Resources for Faculty (2015) R&C instructors may schedule an appointment with CWP's consultant on teaching multilingual students. There are two writing requirements that students must satisfy to graduate. Both must be fulfilled by the end of the sophomore year.The Analytical Writing Placement Exam (AWPE) enables students to demonstrate proficiency in reading and writing at the college entry level.The University upholds a code of student conduct and the College Writing Programs supports that code through its position on plagiarism and acts of academic dishonesty and conventions for ethical citation. The College Writing Program has a zero-tolerance policy regarding plagiarism. Students who submit plagiarized work will be subject to consequences ranging from a grade of "F" on the assignment to suspension from the University. For more on academic dishonesty and its consequences, see the Code of Student Conduct.The Center for Student Conduct offers the following definition of plagiarism:"Plagiarism is defined as use of intellectual material produced by another person without acknowledging its source, for example:The Berkeley Academic Guide states the following about plagiarism and its disciplinary consequences:"Achievement and proficiency in subject matter include your realization that neither is to be achieved by cheating. An instructor has the right to give you an F on a single assignment produced by cheating without determining whether you have a passing knowledge of the relevant factual material. That is an appropriate academic evaluation for a failure to understand or abide by the basic rules of academic study and inquiry. An instructor has the right to assign a final grade of F for the course if you plagiarized a paper for a portion of the course, even if you have successfully and, presumably, honestly passed the remaining portion of the course. It must be understood that any student who knowingly aids in plagiarism or other cheating, e.g., allowing another student to copy a paper or examination question, is as guilty as the cheating student."The AWPE is administered to college-bound high school seniors each May at testing centers across the state of California. The AWPE is also administered on campus for those who did not attend high school in California, or who were otherwise unable to take the May exam. Campus exams are administered in September and February.For more information, see the Analytical Writing Placement Examination website.A fee is required to take the exam. The fee can only be paid online.The Analytical Writing Placement Examination provides students with a prose passage of some 700 to 1,000 words. This passage concerns an issue accessible to all freshmen, although it may include some perspectives or information that will be new to them. The passage is of the level of difficulty encountered in beginning university courses, and may be drawn from any of a number of disciplines. Frequently it presents a point of view with which there can clearly be disagreement — a viewpoint, that is, about a truly arguable issue.  After reading the passage, students write an essay responding to a single topic based on the passage's content. If students have been admitted to UC Berkeley but have not yet fulfilled the University of California Entry-Level Writing Requirement or taken the Analytical Writing Placement Examination, they should take the exam during their first semester at Berkeley. A fee is required to take the exam.Students must visit the fee payment / fee waiver website, Follow the instructions to pay the AWPE fee or confirm that the fee has been waived, and print the Payment Status page.  All students must bring their printed Payment Status to the exam.In Spring 2018, the Berkeley campus Analytical Writing Placement Examination will be held:Saturday, February 24, 2018 10:00 am - 12:00 noon, Room to be announced.To be admitted, students must bring their student ID, a pen, and their printed Payment Status page. Exams written in pencil will not be accepted.Results will be available approximately three weeks after the exam is administered. For more information, contact us.If you have questions about the AWP Exam, please see our FAQs. If you don’t find your questions answered there, contact us.There are two writing requirements that students must satisfy to graduate: Entry-Level Writing, and Reading & Composition.In addition to courses that satisfy the Reading & Composition requirement, CWP offers courses that satisfy various other requirements.The UC Entry-Level Writing requirement is a Universitywide writing requirement. All students entering the University of California as freshmen must demonstrate their command of the English language by fulfilling this requirement. Fulfillment of this requirement is a prerequisite to enrolling in all Reading & Composition courses except for College Writing R1A.There are two ways to satisfy the requirement, by coursework or by exam, and it depends on whether or not you have started classes at Berkeley. To meet this requirement by exam before you have started classes at Berkeley, you must scoreTo meet this requirement by coursework, you must earn a grade of C or higher in a college course certified by UC Berkeley as satisfying the Entry-Level Writing Requirement.To meet this requirement by exam after you have started classes at Berkeley, you must score 8 or above on the Analytical Writing Placement Examination taken on the Berkeley campus.To meet this requirement by coursework, you must earn a grade of C or higher in College Writing R1A.The Reading & Composition requirement is a two-part sequence required of Berkeley undergraduates at the lower-division level to provide them with a solid foundation in reading, writing, and critical thinking for work in the major and beyond.All undergraduates must complete the R&C requirement in sequential order by the end of their fourth semester, or their enrollment will be blocked for the following semester.The R&C requirement can be satisfied by any of the courses listed with an "R" before its course number in the online Schedule of Classes. More than a dozen departments offer R&C courses, so be sure to check the Online Schedule of Classes.Students who arrive at Berkeley not having satisfied the Entry-Level Writing requirement (see above) can satisfy both the Entry-Level Writing requirement and the 1st part of the 2-part R&C requirement by taking CW R1A.Students who arrive at Berkeley having satisfied the Entry-Level Writing requirement (see above) need only satisfy the R&C requirement. There are 2 parts to the R&C requirement, A and B, and they must be fulfilled in sequence. More than a dozen campus departments offer the R&C sequence. R&C courses are designated with an “R” before the course number in the Schedule of Classes. The following College Writing courses fulfill the American Cultures Requirement.CW 25AC - Reading in and about US Education InstitutionsCW 50AC/150AC - Researching Water in the WestCW 192AC - Advanced Composition: Community-Based Ethics The following CW courses count toward the Seven-Course Breadth Requirement in Arts and Literature.CW N2 - Summer BridgeCW 105 - Intermediate Composition: Finding Your VoiceCW 106 - Intermediate Composition: Argument in the DisciplinesCW 108 - Advanced Composition: New MediaCW 110 - Advanced Composition: Challenging WritingCW 180 - Travel Writing The following class counts toward the Undergraduate Division's Creative Writing Minor.CW 130 - Introduction to the Craft of Creative Writing The following class counts toward the Undergraduate Division's Education Minor.CW 25AC - Reading in and about US Education Institutions