Wednesday December 3 IES Seminar Room, 210 Moses Hall, UC Berkeley in South Africa and Namibia’ Thursday December 4 IES Seminar Room, 210 Moses Hall, UC Berkeley Program Booklet: Click herePingback: Kousbroek versus Brouwers: The strange case of “Sunken Red” | berkeleydutch Prerequisites: NoneIn this beginner’s course, students will familiarize themselves with the basics of Dutch: its sounds and spelling, its grammatical structure, and its vocabulary. The class focuses on oral communication with an emphasis on vocabulary: learning words and learning how to use these words. By reading texts and dialogues (and listening to the audio version), students will build their vocabulary. In class they will get the opportunity to practice their newly learned words and phrases. By the end of the semester, students will be able to express themselves in speaking and in writing about a variety of topics, including introducing yourself, time, living, studying, traveling, and talking about present and past situations.Esmée van der Hoeven, M-W 12-2P, F 12-1P, 189 DWINELLE, 5 units.Prerequisites: Dutch 1 and 2 or equivalentIn this advanced Dutch language course, students will continue to build their vocabulary based on texts dealing with a variety of topics: the history, culture and society of Belgium and the Netherlands, current affairs and discussions, and literature and art. Class evolves around the reading and discussions of texts, and (newly) featured grammar will be discussed along the way. A lot of attention is paid to speaking skills and presentation skills. By the end of the semester, students will have developed their fluency in Dutch to the level of an advanced speaker.Esmée van der Hoeven, M-W-F 11A-12P, 210 DWINELLE, 4 units.  This course deals with the early Dutch history of New York, the former New Amsterdam. Traditionally it has been argued that modern American history has English roots onto which, over time, cultures from many other nations were grafted to create a multicultural society that became a multiethnic model for progressive societies all over the world. This course will question this perspective and argue that the contemporary multicultural and liberal model is by no means a deviation from an “originally Christian, Puritan America” but rather the realization of a type of society similar to the one that already existed in the Dutch settlement on Manhattan, and which was later to become New York. We will argue that there are good reasons to justify that the multicultural, liberal, tolerant, multi-lingual United States of today are not a deviation from how America used to be, but rather the realization of a type of society that was initiated in 17th-century New Netherland. We will complement this vision, however, with indigenous and African-American voices in and about New Netherland. We will pay attention to the connection between the Dutch settlement on the American East Coast and the Dutch strongholds in the Caribbean that were developing into major centers of slave trade. In the final part of this course, we will draw conclusions from our study of the subaltern voice of the Other (the indigenous, the African American) in order to critically analyze the major faults of the Dutch colonial society in New Netherland. These conclusions will enable us to discuss the apparent contradiction between the liberal, tolerant, multicultural society that grew under Dutch role on the American East Coast and the existence of slavery as well as the military campaigns against the indigenous population. Prerequisites: none, all readings and discussion in English.Dutch 171 satisfies the American Cultures Requirement.Jeroen Dewulf, MWF 3:00P-3:59P, 101 Life Sciences Addition Prerequisite: Elementary Dutch 1 and Elementary Dutch 2 or equivalent.The student is expected to complete a minimum of 30 upper division units. Of these the following is required:Additional courses to be selected from the following list to complete the major:Prerequisite: Elementary Dutch 1 and Elementary Dutch 2 or equivalent.The student is expected to complete 5 upper-division courses from the following:In October 2012, the Graduate Council of University of California, Berkeley established the Designated Emphasis in Dutch Studies. The D.E. in Dutch Studies provides curricular and research resources for students who want to concentrate on Dutch Studies within their respective disciplines and have their work formally recognized in their degree designation. Designed to bring together faculty and students from different departments, the D.E. is administered by the Graduate Group in Dutch Studies and provides a unique context for rigorous cross-disciplinary research. Sponsoring departments include German, History, History of Art, Southeast Asian Studies, African American Studies, Comparative Literature, French, and Sociology. However, the D.E. is open to interested students regardless of whether their home department is officially affiliated with the D.E. The program helps advance Berkeley’s position as America’s leading Dutch Studies program and facilitate research in and cooperation with other universities in the Netherlands, Belgium, South Africa, Indonesia, and the Caribbean who also have strong Dutch Studies programs. Students applying to the D.E. must be prepared to integrate high-level research in Dutch Studies into their coursework, qualifying exam and dissertation.The amount of students to be accepted in the program is limited to six in order to ensure that each student receives strong individual support.Students are required to fill out a form requesting admission, listing their prior preparation in the field, and their projected pathway through the program. In addition, they have to submit a brief essay stating interests and reasons for applying, a CV, a writing sample, and a letter of recommendation from a faculty member in the student’s home department indicating why and how the student would benefit from the D.E.Students must be admitted to the D.E. prior to taking their Qualifying Exams. Admission will be determined on the basis of how coherently and logically the student can articulate the value of the D.E. for her/his larger course of study and career goals, as well as on the quality of the written work.Students admitted to the D.E. in Dutch Studies can apply for the annual Orde van den Prince Research Grant. Every year, the section Leuven-Arenberg of the Flemish-Dutch cultural organization Orde van den Prince offers a grant of 500 Euros to support travel costs by D.E. students to the Low Countries. Students who wish to apply for the Orde van den Prince Research Grant need to submit a one-page application about the purpose of their journey to the director of the Designated Emphasis, Prof. Jeroen Dewulf, by April 1. Students are encouraged to write this report in Dutch. In case more than two students apply, the selection will be made by the Orde van den Prince. Students who receive an Orde van den Prince Research Grant are required to visit the city of Leuven during their stay in the Low Countries and to schedule a meeting with a representative of the Orde van den Prince, section Leuven-Arenberg.Students admitted to the D.E. in Dutch Studies, whose research has a focus on Flemish History of Art, can also apply for a grant to participate at the annual summer course in Flanders. The aim of the summer course is to bring to Flanders, annually, a select group of 18 national and international, highly qualified young researchers. They will be presented with an intensive 10-day program of lectures, discussions, and visits related to the specific course theme within Flemish art. This theme will vary annually and will focus each year on a different art-historical period. Click here for more information.Contact us (click to email):Designated Emphasis and Chair of the Executive Committee, Prof. Jeroen DewulfExecutive Committee member, Prof. Elizabeth HonigExecutive Committee member, Prof. Sylvia TiwonHead Graduate Advisor, Prof. Thomas ShannonSecond Graduate Advisor, Prof. Irene BloemraadGraduate student adviser Andrea Rapport, Phone (510) 642-3786, Dwinelle 5307Students are required to fill out a form requesting admission, listing their prior preparation in the field, and their projected pathway through the program. In addition, they have to submit a brief essay stating interests and reasons for applying, a CV, a writing sample, and a letter of recommendation from a faculty member in the student’s home department indicating why and how the student would benefit from the D.E.Students must be admitted to the D.E. prior to taking their Qualifying Exams. Admission will be determined on the basis of how coherently and logically the student can articulate the value of the D.E. for her/his larger course of study and career goals, as well as on the quality of the written work.Students admitted to the Designated Emphasis Program must complete the following requirements:1. Students will be required to acquire a basic knowledge of Dutch, which enables them to read Dutch texts. The language component of the D.E. can be fulfilled by successfully completing either Dutch for Reading Knowledge (Dutch 100) or Elementary Dutch (Dutch 1). Students who already possess a basic knowledge of Dutch can apply for dispensation of this requirement. In order to do so, their knowledge of Dutch has to be examined and officially acknowledged in a letter written by a member of the Dutch Studies Program at the Dept. of German;2. Students will be required to complete the course Dutch 299 Individual Studies in the field of Dutch Studies for Graduate Students, which will serve as the integrative course for the program regarding methodology and research skills. This course can be offered by any faculty member of the Graduate Group in the D.E. in Dutch Studies. Although they can limit themselves to only one faculty member, students are encouraged to select an additional faculty member as co-supervisor for this course in accordance with the interdisciplinary orientation of the Designated Emphasis. The course topics may vary in accordance with the specific expertise of the selected faculty member(s). The number of units for this course has to be at least 3 and the course needs to be taken for a letter grade. The goal of this individual studies course is to provide the necessary intellectual background for top quality scholarship in the field of Dutch Studies as well as to provide cohort cohesion and intellectual exchange across disciplines. The course has a strong practical component, including engagement with bibliographical resources and scholarly practices essential to doing work in the field of Dutch Studies. The student needs to write a 7000-word article to complete the course, using a bibliography that includes Dutch Studies materials. The content of the article is to be determined on an individual basis with attention to the students’ research interests. The ultimate goal is to elaborate an article in close cooperation with the supervising faculty member(s) that can be published in an academic journal in the field of Dutch Studies (such as Dutch Crossing, Journal of Dutch Literature, The Low Countries, etc.) or any other academic journal. This course is offered every semester. The faculty members offering Dutch 299 are the core members of the Graduate Group for the Designated Emphasis in Dutch Studies.
Readings will vary according to the selected topic of research. Reading materials will be provided by the coordinating faculty member(s);3. Two additional course electives related to Dutch Studies and approved by the Graduate Group’s Curriculum Committee. These courses support the interdisciplinary nature of the program with attention to the individual students’ research interests. At least one of these courses has to be a graduate seminar. One of the two course electives can be fulfilled by repeating Dutch 299 under the condition that the topic of this course changes.Other course offerings to satisfy the D.E. requirements include History 112B, 165E, 170; History of Art 104, 108, 166, 172, 173, 260, 262; African American Studies 118, 131; South and Southeast Asian Studies 128, 130, 136, 137 and 210-B; German C133 and 280; Dutch 100, 107, 110, 125, 140, C164, 166, 170, C170, 171AC, 173, 174, 176, C178, 179, 299. Student may petition for a course not on this established list if approved by the Advising Committee. D.E. students are able to enroll in courses of the participating faculty on the same footing as the students in the major department.Examination: A member of the Graduate Group in Dutch Studies must be a formal member of the Ph.D. Qualifying Examination committee of the D.E. student. Under most circumstances, the Graduate Group member in the student’s home department will serve in this function. A member of the Graduate Group may also serve as the outside member of the Qualifying Exam committee if not a faculty member of the student’s major. At least one Dutch Studies topic must be included as a subject on the Qualifying Examination. Satisfactory performance on the Qualifying Examination for the Ph.D. will be judged according to the established rules in the student’s major program.Dissertation: A member of the Graduate Group in Dutch Studies must be a formal member of the dissertation committee of the D.E. student. The dissertation must (partially) relate to Dutch Studies (Dutch culture, history, politics, art, literature, linguistics, sociology, etc.).Degree conferral: Upon completion of all requirements of the student’s major program and the D.E. in Dutch Studies, students will receive a designation on their transcript and diploma stating that they have completed a “Ph.D. in (…) with a Designated Emphasis in Dutch Studies.”For more information, please contact the director of the Designated Emphasis and Chair of the Executive Committee, Prof. Jeroen Dewulf (jdewulf@berkeley.edu), or the other members of the Executive Committee: Prof. Elizabeth Honig  elizahonig@yahoo.com) and Prof. Sylvia Tiwon (tiwon@berkeley.edu).For practical information on enrollment en requirements, please contact our Graduate Student Service Advisor, Ms.Andrea Rapport (germanga@berkeley.edu), Tel. 510-642-3786, Office nr. Dwinelle 5307, or the members of the Advising Committee: Head Graduate Advisor, Prof. Thomas Shannon (tshannon@berkeley.edu), and the Second Graduate Advisor, Prof. Irene Bloemraad (bloemr@berkeley.edu).Students admitted to the D.E. in Dutch Studies can apply for the annual Orde van den Prince Travel Grant. Every year, the Flemish-Dutch cultural organization Orde van den Prince offers two grants of $ 500 to support travel costs by D.E. students to the Low Countries. Students who wish to apply for the Orde van den Prince Travel Grant need to submit a 500-words application about the purpose of their journey to the director of the Designated Emphasis, Prof. Jeroen Dewulf, by February 15. Students will need to write this application in Dutch. In case more than two students apply, the selection will be made by the Orde van den Prince. Our Dutch Studies Undergraduate Program offers a wide selection of courses covering Dutch language courses for absolute beginners and advanced speakers of Dutch as well as courses taught in English on Dutch culture, linguistics, literature and history.In keeping with the department’s overall mission of providing a solid liberal arts education, Dutch language courses at Berkeley go beyond the teaching of grammar and vocabulary. Learning a foreign language involves learning new forms of expression that are also new ways of thinking. Central goals for the study of the Dutch language at Berkeley include the acquisition of communicative competencies, tools for interpretation, and critical awareness of both students’ own native culture(s) and “things foreign.”Our Dutch Studies students have ample opportunities to immerse themselves in the language by attending departmental events such as the weekly Koffieuurtje for Dutch-speakers and lectures at the European Studies’ BENELUX Program, the EAP Study Abroad Program and the annual Travel Study Course to the Low Countries.Our program, faculty, instructors, and staff encourage students to achieve their individual goals, whether those include pursuing a Minor, Major or Double Major, or Honors. The Dutch Studies Undergraduate Program provides students with the language fluency, cultural knowledge, academic experience, and analytical skills necessary to attend graduate school, to enter the job market, and to be global citizens who are culturally aware and critical thinkers.Dutch Studies minors and majors can apply for the annual Orde van den Prince Travel Grant. Every year, the Flemish-Dutch cultural organization Orde van den Prince offers a grants of $ 500 to support travel costs by Dutch Studies students who wish to participate in the Travel Study Course Dutch 177 to the Low Countries, the EAP Study Abroad program in the Netherlands, an officially recognized Dutch language course at a Dutch or Flemish university or a research project supervised by a UC Berkeley faculty member. Students who wish to apply for the Orde van den Prince Travel Grant need to submit a 500-words application about the purpose of their journey to the program director, Prof. Jeroen Dewulf, by February 15. Students will need to write this application in Dutch.Contact us:Program Director Jeroen Dewulf (jdewulf@berkeley.edu)Language Program coordinator Esmée van der Hoeven (ivanderhoeven@berkeley.edu)Undergraduate student adviser Nadia Samadi (germanic@berkeley.edu), Phone: (510) 643-9479, 5311 DwinelleDutch Studies Course List Elementary Dutch – Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 1 [5 units]Course Format: Five hours of lecture and one hour of laboratory per week.Description: Dutch language course for beginners. Focus of the course is on acquiring basic communicative competence in the language, i.e., developing the ability to appropriately use the language (spoken as well as written) in authentic situations.Elementary Dutch  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 2 [5 units]Course Format: Five hours of lecture and one hour of laboratory per week.Prerequisites: 1 or equivalent.Description: In this course, one reinforces and expands knowledge of grammar and vocabulary, increases fluency through oral and written exercises, and builds on the knowledge and skills acquired inCultural History of the Low Countries (Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg)  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 39A [3 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture per week.Description: This course offers a general survey on the cultural history of Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg. Through written texts, audiovisual materials, and discussions, we will study important historical, social, political, and cultural aspects of these three countries that represent European history in a nutshell. All readings and discussions in English.Dutch for Reading Knowledge  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 100 [3 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Description: This is a Dutch language course for absolute beginners, with a strong focus on Dutch grammar, basic vocabulary and syntax. It caters primarily to graduate students who need to be able to read texts in Dutch for their research but is also open to other students who wish to start learning Dutch.The Structure of Modern Dutch  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 107 [3 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture per week.Description: A basic course on the structural properties of modern Dutch, including phonetics and phonology, morphology, and syntax. Comparison with English and German.Advanced Dutch  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 110 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Prerequisites: 2 or equivalent.Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Description: Includes a grammar review with exercises (Jenneke Osterhoff, Intermediate Dutch). Conversation is taken to a higher plane, role playing becomes increasingly important, newspaper articles of the more difficult papers are read, and radio programs and television programs are listened to and watched. These activities provide material for short essay assignments. Problems in the essays create occasions for more grammar review.Conversation and Composition  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 125 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Prerequisites: 110 or consent of instructor.Credit option: Course may be repeated once for credit.Description: This course is designed to improve both the oral and written style of the student in Dutch, employing a variety of sources ranging from the newspaper to the essay to the creative forms (poetry, short story). The art of correspondence, both formal and informal, will be taught as well as the widely-varying spoken styles.Topics in Dutch Literature  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 140 [3 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture/discussion per week.Prerequisites: 2 or equivalent.Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Description: Survey course of Dutch literature, taught in Dutch with a selection of some of the most famous Dutch literary texts.The Indonesian Connection: Dutch Literature About the Indies in English Translation  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) C164 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Description: In postcolonial thought on European claims to cultural supremacy, the case of the “Dutch East-Indies” (the future Indonesia) still arouses many questions. This course analyzes Dutch literature from the East Indies (in English translation) in its historical context.  No knowledge of Dutch is required. Also listed as Southeast Asian C164.Anne Frank and After: Dutch Literature of the Holocaust in English Translation  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 166 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of consultation per week.Description: Post-War Dutch literature is replete with works dealing with the Holocaust, by both victims and survivors. The course will focus on literary as well as historical documents, examine the history of anti-Semitism in the Lowlands, and compare a number of literary genres from the Diary to ego-documents and fiction.Dutch Culture and Society  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 170 [3 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture/discussion per week.Description: Until the beginning of the 21st century, the Netherlands was widely considered a model of progressiveness; it was the first country in the world to allow same-sex marriage, euthanasia, the personal use of soft drugs, etc. The Netherlands also proudly claimed a vanguard position in extending rights to immigrants, such as the right to vote in local elections and dual citizenship. However, the country went into a state of shock after the murder of the popular politician Pim Fortuyn (in 2002) and the controversial film director Theo van Gogh (in 2004), who were known for their critical views regarding Islam. These killings let to a debate on the future of the Netherlands. In this course, we will focus on immigration, integration, multiculturalism, Islam and cultural change in Europe, with particular emphasis on the Netherlands. We focus on the origin and “immigration history” of the different ethnic groups that arrived in the Netherlands after World War II (Dutch-Indonesians, Surinamese, Antilleans, Moroccans, Turks, etc.). We then analyze the political and social context in which the killings of Fortuyn and van Gogh took place as well as how they affected society and the general perspective on multiculturalism. The study of contemporary Dutch literature (in English translation) written by first and second generation immigrants will broaden our perspective on national, cultural and religious identity in the Netherlands and in Europe.Dutch Culture and Society: Amsterdam and Berkeley in the Sixties  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) C170 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Description: This course will focus on the cultural aspects of protest- and youth cultures in two cities that were influential in the sixties: Amsterdam and Berkeley. Particular attention will be paid to how American popular culture was perceived in a European context. All readings and discussions in English. Also listed as History C194 and Sociology C189.From New Amsterdam to New York: Race, Culture, and Identity in New Netherland  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 171AC [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Description: What would it mean to begin modern American history on the island of Manhattan instead of New England? We intend to question the Anglo-American perspective on the representation of cultural identity, national identity, ethnicity, and race by constrasting the traditional foundation story of the United States with that of the 17th-century Dutch colony on Manhattan. Readings will include historical and ethnographic writings, self-representations of the different ethnic groups, and fictional accounts.Dutch Post-Colonial Studies  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 173 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Description: Selected topics in Dutch or Flemish/Belgian colonial literature and/or history. See departmental description for current topic. All readings and discussions in English.Brussels: A Global Study of a European Capital City  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 174 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture and one hour of discussion per week.Description: This course aims at a comprehensive study of Brussels, capital of the European Union: its historical richness, institutional complexity of Belgium, cultural diversity, linguistic contradictions, globalizing economy, and its rapidly transforming social divisions. Taught in English; no knowledge of French or Dutch is required.The Amsterdam-Brussels Connection: History, Arts and Identity in the Heart of Europe — Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 177 [6 units]Course Format: Travel Study Course offered by the Dutch Studies Program in cooperation with Berkeley Summer Sessions.Description: Introduce yourself to the cultural history of the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, three contrasting monarchies in the heart of Europe. From our starting point in Amsterdam, we discover the Netherlands. From there, we continue to Luxembourg, then to Europe’s capital Brussels, where we end our journey in Leuven, home of one of Europe’s oldest universities. On our way, we will trace important cultural developments on daily fieldtrips. From the medieval towns in Flanders over the Dutch “Golden Age” up to the contemporary (multi)cultural, liberal and European identity of the Low Countries. You will engage with international politics, art and culture through a variety of city trips. Guided visits to the Dutch House of Representatives, the European Parliament are also included.Cultural Studies: the Dutch-Speaking Caribbean  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) C178 [4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture/discussion per week.Description: Although the Caribbean has been recognized in recent years as being one of the most compelling areas in regard to questions of interculturality, hybridity, and miscegenation, the Dutch-speaking part of it has somehow been neglected. This course intends to give an opportunity to those who do not necessarily have a command of Dutch language, but wish to complete their knowledge of Latin-American and Carribean history, culture, and literature. Also listed as Spanish C178 and African American Studies C178.Cultural Studies  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 179 [3,4 units]Course Format: Three hours of lecture/discussion per week. One additional hour of discussion per week, depending on the topic.Description: Selected topics in cultural studies. Offerings vary. See departmental descriptions for current topic. All readings and discussions in English.Senior Thesis  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 190 [4 units]Course Format: One 2-hour consultation per week.Description: A major research paper in the areas of Dutch literature, culture, or the area of linguistics. Required of all majors.Honors Studies in Dutch  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) H196 [1-4 units]Course Format:Prerequisites: Advanced standing.Credit option: Course may be repeated for a maximum of 4 units.Description: Supervised independent study and research course for honors students.Directed Group Study  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 198 [1-4 units]Course Format: One to four hours of directed group study per week.Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Grading option: Must be taken on a passed/not passed basis.Special Studies in Dutch  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 199 [1-4 units]Course Format: Individual conference.Prerequisites: Overall G.P.A. of 3.0.Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Grading option: Must be taken on a passed/not passed basis.Description: Enrollment is restricted by regulations in General Catalog.Individual Studies in Dutch for Graduate Students  —  Dutch Studies (DUTCH) 299 [1-8 units]Course Format: Individual conference.Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Description: For graduate students engaged in exploration of a restricted field, involving the writing of a research paper.Honors Thesis of Bo-Peter Laanen (class of 2013)
Dutch Republicanism: 1555-1609. Establishing the Origins of Dutch Liberty and RepublicanismThe Dutch Language Program consists of the following courses:Dutch 1 – Elementary Dutch
Prerequisites: None
In this beginners course, students will familiarize themselves with the basics of Dutch: its sounds and spelling, its grammatical structure, and its vocabulary. The class focuses on oral communication with an emphasis on vocabulary: learning words and learning how to use these words. By reading texts and dialogues (and listening to the audio version), students will build their vocabulary. In class they will get the opportunity to practice their newly learned words and phrases. By the end of the semester, students will be able to express themselves in speaking and in writing about a variety of topics, including introducing yourself, time, living, studying, traveling, and talking about present and past situations.
Fall semesterDutch 2 – Elementary Dutch
Prerequisites: Dutch 1 or equivalent
Dutch 2 is a continuation of Dutch 1. Students’ knowledge of Dutch vocabulary and grammar will be expanded and put into practice. As in Dutch 1, the focus lies on further developing speaking and writing skills. Each week is dedicated to a theme, which forms the heart of the readings and discussions. Students will be able to engage in conversations in Dutch and write about various topics covered in class. Students will conclude this semester by giving a short presentation in Dutch.
Spring semesterDutch 107 – The Structure of Modern Dutch
This is a basic linguistic course on the structural properties of modern Dutch, including phonetics and phonology, morphology, and syntax. Comparison is made with English and German in order to consider Dutch in contrast to other Germanic languages. Students observe the application of linguistic rules in forming the Dutch language to hallmark texts. They also learn the ability to critically analyze language data based on Dutch linguistic approaches.
Fall semesterDutch 110 – Advanced Dutch
Prerequisites: Dutch 1 and 2 or equivalent
In this advanced Dutch language course, students will continue to build their vocabulary based on texts dealing with a variety of topics: the history, culture and society of Belgium and the Netherlands, current affairs and discussions, and literature and art. Class evolves around the reading and discussions of texts, and (newly) featured grammar will be discussed along the way. A lot of attention is paid to speaking skills and presentation skills. By the end of the semester, students will have developed their fluency in Dutch to the level of an advanced speaker.
Fall semesterDutch 125 – Conversation and Composition
Prerequisites: Dutch 110 or equivalent
In this advanced language course we proceed with the patterns of Dutch 110, although instead of giving frequent presentations, the emphasis will now be placed on weekly writing assignments and intense conversation. Students will be introduced to different types of texts and will learn different styles and practices in writing. A reader with various reading materials (i.e. articles, book reviews, literature, scholarly pieces) will form the basis for the writings and conversations.
Spring semesterDutch 100 – Dutch for Reading Knowledge
Prerequisites: None
This is a course designed for students, primarily graduate students, who want to be able to read Dutch for research purposes. The course is taught in English and targeted at students who have no knowledge of Dutch, however, students who wish to solidify their knowledge of Dutch grammar and their Dutch reading skills, are welcome to participate. By focusing on reading strategies and analyzing texts on sentence and word level, students will develop their reading and translation skills in Dutch. A lot of attention is paid to grammar, syntax and basic Dutch vocabulary. This course works with authentic texts (book reviews, newspaper articles, scholarly pieces). Students are welcome to bring in texts or topics for texts in their own field of study.
Spring semesterDutch Studies students are encouraged to participate at the officially recognized international Dutch Language Proficiency Exam Certificaat Nederlands als vreemde taal.Dutch Studies students who would like to practice their Dutch on the internet can contact the Internationale Vereniging voor Neerlandistiek in order to find a Dutch pen friend. Improve your Dutch by watching the daily news from the Netherlands or from Flanders.Interested in Dutch? Curious how Dutch sounds? Wondering how difficult or easy it is? Perhaps you are thinking of studying Dutch? Then here is your opportunity to have a go at the language yourself and experience what it is like to learn Dutch from scratch. You can work through the pack all by yourself. No knowledge of Dutch is required.The Dutch Studies language program welcomes people who do not have a formal admission to the University. People who do not have a formal admission to UC Berkeley and who would like to enroll in our Dutch language program, can do so through Concurrent Enrollment. For more information, please contact our Dutch language instructor Esmée van der Hoeven (ievanderhoeven@berkeley.edu) and check out the concurrent enrollment information on the UC Berkeley Extension website: http://extension.berkeley.edu/info/concurrent.htmlOn the basis of lectures, text analysis, film interpretation and class discussions, students gain detailed insight in six historical periods that are considered of essential importance to the cultural identity of the Low Countries:Students learn to analyze texts, films and other cultural productions on the basis of close reading/interpretation and by paying attention to the cultural and political context in which they were produced. They study the historical nature of these cultural products and learn to understand their embeddedness in a multicultural context. Dutch classes generally do not exceed 30 students, which enables the instructors to pay considerable attention to interaction with students. Students learn how to formulate well-organized and supported arguments, in both an oral and a written form.The UC Berkeley Dutch Studies program offers a minor and a major in Dutch Studies. Students are able to compose the minor or major according to their personal interests. Due to the fact that the number of upper division courses offered in the Dutch Studies program is limited, we strongly encourage students considering a major in Dutch Studies to apply to the UC Berkeley Study Abroad Program and to spend a semester at one of our partner universities in the Netherlands or apply to the UCEAP Field Research & Internship Program in Brussels, Belgium.Introduce yourself to the culture and identity of the Low Countries: the Netherlands and Belgium. From the medieval towns in Flanders over the Dutch “Golden Age” up to the contemporary (multi)cultural, liberal and European identity of the Low Countries. We engage with international politics, art and culture through trips to Amsterdam, The Hague, Utrecht, Brussels, Ghent, Antwerp, Bruges, and many other cities. Guided visits to the Dutch House of Representatives and the European Parliament are also included.The Travel/Study Course Dutch 177 is open to students from all departments on the Berkeley campus as well as students from other universities, also outside the United States. It satisfies the UC Berkeley Arts & Literature or Historical Studies L&S Breadth Requirement, and it is also part of the Dutch Studies Minor or Major. Students from other departments are encouraged to consult with their advisor to see which other major/minor this program may fulfill. Visiting students are encouraged to talk to their advisor about transfer of credit to their home institution. This course has no requirements. No language-teaching is involved. For more information, please contact the program please contact the program director Esmée van der Hoeven (ievanderhoeven@berkeley.edu) or visit the travel study website. The Fulbright Program is the largest U.S. international exchange program, offering opportunities for students, scholars, and professionals to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, and teach at the elementary, secondary, and university levels worldwide. Several Fulbright grants are available each year for study or research at any Dutch or Flemish university. In addition, the Fulbright Program offers awards such as the Fulbright English Teaching Assistant that places one American student with proficiency in Dutch in a Flemish university for nine months to teach English conversation and American culture. This is the world’s only Fulbright ETA position in a Dutch-language environment. Other awards are specifically linked to Dutch or Flemish universities. Participating universities are: the University of Antwerp, the University of Ghent, the University of Leuven, Radboud University, VU Amsterdam University, Erasmus University Rotterdam, TU Delft and Maastricht University. Candidates in all fields are welcome to apply to these positions. More information about Belgium, about the Netherlands, and application forms can be found on the Fulbright website.