We’re in at #7!!Faculty Log-inEach year, BAM/PFA teams with the UC Berkeley Department of Art Practice to exhibit the work of their graduates in the galleries. This year’s graduates are: Joey Enos, Jason Fritz, Jessica Hankey, Helena Keeffe, Elizabeth Keegan, and Vreni Michelini Castillo. Be among the first to encounter the work of these six exceptional artists as they embark on their careers. Faculty Log-inThe Jack K. and Gertrude Murphy Fellowships, and Edwin Anthony and Adelaide Boudreaux Cadogan Scholarships help fuel the continued forward-thinking, visual arts movement that makes the Bay Area unique. Established in 1986, these awards are designed to further the development of Bay Area MFA students’ and to foster the exploration of their artistic potential in digital art, film/video, hybrid practice, installation, mixed media, painting, photography, and sculpture. Winners receive $5,000 in tuition assistance and have their work displayed in a professionally-curated exhibition at SOMArts Cultural Center. – See more at: http://sff.org/programs/awards-programs/art-awards/murphy-and-cadogan-contemporary-art-awards/#sthash.pE1YUtGs.dpufThe four MFA students who have received the award are:Leslie Dreyer
Tanja Geis
Lee Lavy
Matt Smith Faculty Log-inProfessors Greg Niemeyer (Art Practice) and Ron Rael (C.E.D.) are co-teaching a course entitled SENSING CITYSCAPES: SENSORS, CITIES, POLICIES/BASIC PROTOCOLS FOR NEW MEDIA in which students create and interrogate tools for collecting data on urban metabolisms. Through a suite of practical projects, the course introduces methods for retrieving and working with existing city data, investigating cities through surveys and mapping, generating data through digital sensing and ways of presenting data publicly. Students are actively partnering with the  City of San Leandro to find new ways of collecting and using data to improve city planning.Faculty Log-inCongratulations to undergrad student Audrey Chen!Audrey has made it into the prestigious juried exhibition at Southern Exposure Gallery, “More Than One Way,” opening this Friday. This is indeed a great accomplishment. Faculty Log-inMichelle Ott, 2nd yearMatt Smith, 2nd yearJose Figueroa, 1st year* * * *When Michelle Ott heard that a San Francisco gallery would be opening specifically to exhibit the visual art of Bay Area masters of fine arts students, she knew she had the right work for the first show.Both the gallery and the exhibition would be called Embark, and Ott, a student in art practice at UC Berkeley, deduced that nobody else had embarked on a journey quite like hers, which was to fly 17 hours on four separate occasions to create art about Antarctica. She was right, and her enlarged photos and wall drawings get their own corner of the group show that opened Friday at Fort Mason. The show’s theme, “Embark,” may not be original, but Embark Gallery’s mission is so refreshingly obvious that it’s a wonder no curator or academic has thought of it before — pick an all-star team of art grad students and throw them together for a monthlong exhibition. Then do it all over again with a new theme, six times a year.“We hope to create connections between these seven different MFA programs,” says Embark Gallery Director Angelica Jardini, who put out the call to UC Berkeley, California College of the Arts, Mills College, San Francisco Art Institute, San Francisco State, San Jose State and Stanford.“There are so many innovative things going on at these somewhat isolated institutions,” Jardini says, “and we wanted to provide these students a professional space to show their work and also to get to know each other and to exchange ideas.”Embark’s founder, Tania Houtzager, is an MFA student herself who got hit by a thunderbolt while managing the grad student gallery at the San Francisco Art Institute.“It made me realize that so many of these programs don’t have opportunities to show your work before your final thesis show,” she says. “The only shows you can get are ones where you are competing with mid-career artists.”These pre-career artists put some intriguing twists on the theme, which Jardini describes as “journeys, new beginnings, change of any kind. That was the prompt we gave the artists.” CCA student Omar Mismar’s twist was to create a red neon map of the routes he has taken while cruising men in San Francisco, using the Grindr mobile phone application.“I would choose a guy on Grindr that I desired and would try to get as close as possible to him using the app,” says Mismar, in describing “The Path of Love #3,” which is front and center at the gallery entrance. Toward the back is SFAI student Matt Goldberg’s “Cadillac Treadmill,” made of a walking machine he found on Mission Street and tricked up with a front end in turquoise and a hood ornament. On the floor, looking real enough to trip over, is a parking curb in San Francisco livery, made of foam by Courtney Sennish, a student at CCA.‘Phenomenal’“This is so phenomenal,” says Lee Gregory, a Fort Mason board member, watching the treadmill belt move at high speed. “What they are doing here is bringing the future of art to a great space.”Houtzager, 26, and Jardini, 25, met at Sartle.com (See Art Differently), an art history database founded by Houtzager. The startup started up at Fort Mason, and in walking the halls they noticed a vacant room that was the perfect size for a gallery, 1,500 square feet, offering full western exposure to dramatic sunset views of the Golden Gate. They got the lease at a discounted rate and chose the name Embark because Fort Mason was the port of embarkation for 1.5 million troops headed into the Pacific Theater in World War II.“This is an organization supporting emerging artists as they embark on their careers, and it’s very exciting,” says Nicholas Kinsey, director of external affairs for Fort Mason Center. “They wouldn’t be able to pay market-rate rent if they went out into the city, so we’re happy to have them here. This is our core mission, supporting the arts.”The core mission of Embark is to showcase work from the seven local nonprofits, all of which are rated among the top 100 graduate programs in the country. Eliminated from consideration are the city’s two for-profit graduate programs, the Academy of Art University and the Art Institute of California — San Francisco.
The gallery is supported by the Kabouter Foundation, which also funds Sartle.com. There won’t be a return because they are declining to take the gallery cut (usually 50 percent) of whatever sells. Associate Director Carolyn Nickell, 26, designed the catalog, which is printed on a classy paper stock.Outside jurorsAt the opening, all the requisite perks of a commercial gallery are covered. There is a uniformed bartender pouring both red and white wine and issuing little individual bottles of Pellegrino. A table is stocked with grapes and fancy cheese and crackers. For first-timers, they got it right, and also got it right in not presuming to be qualified to select the art. They jobbed that out to a jury of three, consisting of commercial gallery owner Catharine Clark; Julie Lazar, a freelance curator who helped open the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles; and performance artist Michael Zheng.The judging was blind to the names of the applicants and their schools. From a pool of 50, eight were selected. UC Berkeley has three artists in the show and Stanford has none. Also shut out were San Francisco State and San Jose State.Among the artists, school acronyms are flying around the room as if it were an air traffic control tower.“Before I began the MFA program at CCA, I did a post-doc at SFAI,” says Houtzager, in describing her academic trajectory. Jardini has a master’s degree but not an MFA from SFAI.As the opening roars on, the crowd holds steady at 50 to 100. The event ends at 8, but people are still there at 8:45. Along the way, gallerists Jardini and Houtzager are asked a mundane question about gallery hours and are momentarily stumped. They shoot each other a “we hadn’t thought of that” look, and then Jardini improvises by saying it’s “by appointment for now.” The hitch is that Sartle.com has moved into the gallery space, eating up the regular weekday hours. Weekend hours for Embark will start in April when the follow-up show, “What Grows Here,” will open.“We hope to do this,” Houtzager says, “until the end of time.”Sam Whiting is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: swhiting@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @samwhitingsfEmbark: The grand opening exhibition at Embark Gallery runs through March 22 at Building B, Suite 330, Fort Mason Center. Hours are by appointment.Faculty Log-inWe’re very proud of  2010 MFA graduate Becky Suss landing a solo show of her work at the Institute of Contemporary Art, University of Philadelphia.From the Q&A:Philadelphia artist Becky Suss reimagines her relatives’ mid-century homes through meditative paintings and ceramics. Her canvases memorialize their collected art and objects, opening familial narrative to questions of class, politics, and religion in Cold War America.As Suss made the final preparations for her first museum solo exhibition, she spoke with Becky Huff Hunter on her practice. Becky Suss, organized by Associate Curator Kate Kraczon, opens on Wednesday, September 16.ICA: Your current work is a sort of archaeology of family history and narrative through objects. I love the description of your work as “filtered through the gray zone of memory,” from your Reprefantasion (2013) exhibition at Fleisher/Ollman. How do you approach this gray zone as a painter?Becky Suss: Several years ago I learned about memory reconsolidation, a relatively new theory that describes the process of what happens when we revisit a memory. It suggests that each time we remember something, the memory is significantly altered, and the changed version takes the place of the original. There are no pristine accounts deep in our brains, only reconsolidated memories containing the traces of all of the other times these memories were recalled.(to continue reading…)Faculty Log-in Student artist interview: Hannah Reinhard (by Julia Borrebaeck)Check out this interview with artist Hannah Reinhard. Her latest work is featured at the exhibition I Know What You Did Last Summer at the Worth Ryder gallery this month. Here, she speaks about what inspired her latest work and why she wanted to become an artist. View interview on the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watchProfiling Student Artist: Cade Cahalan (by Kirsten Chen)Cade shoots film photography here at Cal.  His subject matter ranges from his friends to drama landscapes to experimental work. Take a look.Check out more of his work at http://cade-cahalan.com/Q&A with Student Artist Chrissy Curl from IKWYDLS (by Lina Nguyen)If you could only give one advice about studying abroad, what would it be?
“Keep an open mind to what daily life will be like — you’ll definitely have lots of fun, but you might also experience unexpected downturns.”Chrissy Curl is a senior double-majoring in Art Practice and Theater & Performance Studies. Her piece, Crispy Others, talks about dispelling the common notion that studying abroad is simply an “idyllic time full of adventure and exploration and short on studying and responsibility.” “Crispy Others” is currently being showcased alongside other student artist works in the I Know What You Did Last Summer exhibition in the Worth Ryder Art Gallery.Chrissy says she would highly recommend studying abroad for those who have the opportunity to do so. For more information about studying abroad, check out the fair happening this Friday, September 25th, 2015! Get more information on studying abroad at http://studyabroadfair.berkeley.edu/UC Berkeley Art Community ‘Outlet’ Co-presidents: Allison Zhong & Sophie Li (by Sosun Park)Outlet is a student art organization that seeks to provide a creative outlet and access to supplies for visual artists of all experience levels. They work to serve the UC Berkeley campus and surrounding community by providing open access to arts education. Check out one of
Outlet’s weekly studio meetings on Mondays at 7pm in 172 Wurster or Thursdays at 7pm in 89 Dwinelle! Email outlet.berkeley@gmail.com with inquiries. 
More information and images at https://outletberkeley.wordpress.comArtist Talk w/ Philip Ross (by Celia Chu)
Monday September 21, 2015 at 7:30 pm – 9 pm. “Use what you have, to move yourself forward” – Philip Ross This artist talk was not only enlightening from the art and scientific research that Philip Ross has created over a span of a decade, there was an emotional quality that put emphasis on his own feelings and approach toward his studies on mushroom/fungus/mycelium. He approached his love for art in biology with the projects within a time-basis as well as a lot of experimentation. His projects are wide variations on growth, and these projects gravitate from his fascination with a philosophical approach toward relations between humans and technology. His quote really spoke to me as an artist and this quote not only pertains within the category of Art, but as a specific threshold that I can also relate to with my art works. The amount of determination it takes to create such masterpieces, helped him prosper as an artist. He made a point in his Q&A, and from what I interpreted from him mentioning, “understanding the mono-biological approach, and not just [the] mechanical” is indeed an ‘organic’ approach toward learning through experimentation and not everything (as well as his projects) has to be completed or approached through a regulated system or by a set of rules/instruction.
I hope many others were thrilled to hear from Ross’ artist talk and to have gained something special from his kind words. More information / video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GRnJeNurdEYStudent artist interview with Jinoh Ryu (by Hyesun Kim)1. How important is your choice of medium in conveying your thoughts and intentions for the piece? Does it have any relationship to the current digital age?
I could have taken a high-quality photo of myself applying peanut butter on my face. But I wanted to take advantage of the gloomy screen quality of the PhotoBooth program. What I ended up conveying is a lack of clarity, which raises anxiety in this era of meanings accessed immediately. Even to this day, I cannot pin down what I intended to explicate in the video. So the video has a masturbatory element; something perturbed me, but I was too tired to dig into what it was. I just had to get it out of my way.
 
2. What does peanut butter mean to you?
My scatological engagement with peanut butter is an act of resilience. In my video, the shitty peanut butter that I luxuriated in boasts 24% trans-fat. Essentially, the medical industry is stating, “Never put anything that is ‘trans’ in your body.” Yet as a transgender person, I welcome and embrace anything that is “trans.” And peanut butter mitigates the dull taste of other food such as celery, also known as the bane of my existence. But peanut butter never told me what it means to me. To peanut butter, I can say only that I am a better platform than those ugly bagels from the Golden Bear Café in capturing its titillating aesthetic.
 
3. You described your artwork to be therapeutic. How so? Why?
Although the gallery presents my video on mute, I have background music titled “Zero Gravity” by Korean rap star Zion.T. As I was listening to that lullaby-like music, I made an impromptu video which became my original submission. After clicking the “Finish Record” button, I had a gut sense that Deleuze and Guattari who coined the term ‘faciality’ communicated to me through orgasmic intensity. And what is more therapeutic than a scholarly orgasm? Right?Student artist interview with Anthony Roberts (by Taylor R. McAllister)Fallen Leaf No. 1, 2, and 3 from Series: Place. 2015 photographs on aluminum panels. Series of 3 at 20″ x 30″ each: 20″ x 94″ totalAnthony Roberts artist’s statement for his triptych in I Know What You Did Last Summer gallery show; “I often find myself identifying with the feeling I get in a place rather than the blinking blue dot on my phone that says “you are here.”Place is about approaching places in this world as unique individuals. Through the abstraction of the physical landscape, my goal is to reveal a ‘feeling of being’ in each of those places. While removing any obvious geographical associations, these photographs are ultimately landscapes and I make no attempt to hide this. Instead, I want the viewer to experience the feeling and the sense of place in these photographs without the need to identify their exact location on a map and ultimately their physicality in society.Much of this project has been shot while travelling along the California coast, in the mountains and on the roads in between.All of the photos in this series are created in-camera through a photographic technique I call ‘dragging the shutter’ and are not manipulated during post processing.“The exploration of individuality in contemporary society is a driving force in my artwork. Presently, I’m working on three separate photo projects and one mixed media project addressing this theme from different perspectives.”   – Anthony RobertsHow would you introduce yourself as an individual and an artist?“Introductions are hard, aren’t they? Especially when they are meant to really introduce. I think it’s challenging to distill oneself into a short and hopefully articulate description but I’ll do my best for you. I see myself as older than some and younger than others, but young at heart either way. I’m a bit of a wanderer, both physically and spiritually. I think I try to use that spirit in my artwork – I mean, I think my artwork has a bit of a wandering spirit in itself as well. I mostly focus on photography, lately, but I consider myself an artist in general.”Could you tell me a short history of how you got here?“A short history of nearly everything and mostly nothing” by A. Roberts. Born in Queens, New York in 1979 I just snuck in as a 70’s child. Total product of the 80’s, particular the movies. I still love 80’s movies and 80’s movie soundtracks. I could talk about that (and often do) for way longer than I should. Maybe one day I’ll make some artwork that directly pulls from that genre. I think that could be really cool. My grandmother still has an ever-yellowing paper drawing of an airplane that I allegedly made at the age of two, admittedly I do not remember drawing it. I actually included a wordier version of that grandma-drawing anecdote in my statement for my Berkeley application. I guess they liked it. I moved to California in 2001 and have considered the bay area home ever since then. I guess I’ve always been an “artist” but I never really accepted that as a possible “career” / “life” track until a couple of years ago while I was ski-bumming in Jackson Hole with my girlfriend. We had just started dating and decided to go on an adventure. After a year and a half of basically just playing in the mountains we were ready to come back to the bay area and I was ready to come back to school and finish my degree. I came back to school for architecture, then started to feel like an old man and after some great classes at the College of Marin with a couple of great art instructors, I switched into art. And here I am.What is the driving force behind your work?“I think the real driving force behind my work is that sense of wandering I mentioned earlier. I’m constantly searching. I’m also really interested in exploring the role of individuality in contemporary society, from various perspectives. I actually think these landscapes are part of that exploration of individuality. In the case of this series, I’m exploring the individuality of place and then how we experience that place as a society and also as individuals.”“Fallen Leaf No. 1-3” are all photographs. What other media do you work in, if any?“In the last couple of years I’ve completely fallen in love with photography, so it’s definitely my medium of choice. That being said, I also paint and draw. I’m currently exploring painting on large printed photographs. I’ve dabbled in some sculpture. Carved my first large stone last year. And I love working with wood. There’s something about the smell and the feel of a wood shop, or even the part of the apartment I’ve taken over as a makeshift wood shop. Oh yeah, and I like building snowmen, does that count?”Tell us a bit about the physical process of creating this triptych.“The process is really pretty straight forward. I always have a camera with me. When I first got my camera a few years I was so nervous to carry it around with me all the time, but now it’s a constant companion. The short version is really short. I find myself in a beautiful place, I take the photo and then later I process it into a jpeg and print it. I take pride in the fact that I generally don’t manipulate these images in Photoshop.”In your artist’s statement you called the technique you used, “dragging the shutter” How did you develop this?“This series of abstract landscapes are the result of traveling to beautiful places. I wanted to record the feeling of being in those places but I never wanted to be a landscape photographer or even shoot landscapes. About two years ago, I was in Yosemite and obviously I had to shoot that place. It’s just so beautiful. I was taking a time lapse of the moon rising over half dome and then I got the urge to grab the camera and sweep it across the landscape with a long exposure. The resulting image was really ethereal and kind of abstract and very pink. I thought, hmmm. This is kind of cool. Since then I’ve been working on this process of long exposures and camera movement to create these abstract landscapes. It’s still evolving but I like the directions it’s headed.”What was your thought process when developing the work?“There really wasn’t much more to it, at first, than just wanting to capture the feeling of a place, without capturing it’s geographically exactness. I think I mention the “feeling of being” of a place in my artist statement. That’s really it. I want to figure out ways to create images that evoke the feeling of a place without the need to attach oneself to its exact physical location on a map.”As a series, how do you see Places developing?“I think it’s one of those projects that will just continue and continue, until maybe I get bored with it one day. For now it’s a great project for me because it allows me to travel, really, it inspires and even forces me to travel, in order to create these images and that’s great. I would really like to travel more. It’s also great to experiment with the camera as a tool for creating artwork, not just “capturing” images.”Where does “Fallen Leaf No. 1-3” lie in the scope of your Places series? (Beginning, middle, end?)“I’d say I’m still in the beginning stages of the photo project and maybe in the middle stages of my life, so somewhere in that zone…”For more information about his work visit http://www.arobertsphotography.com/Faculty Log-inRandy Hussong’s show (by Sosun Park)Randy Hussong is faculty in Art Practice department. He teaches printmaking and sculpture.
He is well-known to a post-modern, late minimal, neo-dada, pop conceptualist folk artist etc.
Come to his special show! The Berkeley Arts Festival, 2133 University Ave, Berkeley CA, September 15th – Halloween“Randy Hussong – Old Boots/ New WorkSax blown, the penguin slipped on the freshly melted ice cap his friend the polar bear had recently bemoaned, and half-way around the world hence, round the gulf, there whirled a brass Dixieland bass line, boom-boom-boom. Up in New York, a rocketing pianist, sophomore at Johnson in her reflection. Overseas again, having defected, a great white menace blows the whistle, a Silent Gesture screaming across the sky, over Net Privacy. Herein lies the modern gorilla war. But still there exists a guerrilla 1%, capitalizing The Sonorous Buddha in Las Vegas colors. Put on your bright warm boots, step in, step up, tune in, or simply drop in.” – Randy Hussong
Interview with Danielle Schlunegger (by Hyesun Kim)What qualities of a tent enhances the overall experience of your work (specifically, the current work at Worth Ryder)? How does the dynamics of the gallery space interact with your work? Does it bring the viewers inside or outside?

Walking into the gallery and immediately being confronted with the structure of the tent is intended to be a little jarring and overwhelming in a way that tries to inspire a feeling of curiosity- of wanting to know more. I am hoping to light that spark in people that causes them to feel a great desire to investigate, similar to how an explorer of the 19th century must have felt coming upon something so entirely unexpected. This allows the viewer to relate in a small way to Marcus Kelli. The tent creates its own environment, and the shadows of leaves on the tent are reminiscent of being outdoors and far from the inside of a gallery. The installation is meant to be immersive and being able to touch and hold objects helps to make the viewer slow down and feel transported to another place and time within the gallery.What do you want viewers to take away from your work? I hope to be able to awake curiosity in people, so that they walk away with a renewed sense of wonder about the natural world. For a modern person overloaded with technological responsibilities, connecting with nature can become a welcomed source of meditation and deep thinking. As our society shifts, we have reached a point where humans must make crucial decisions about the future of our planet. It is my hope that Marcus Kelli’s story can be used as a springboard for self-reflection on our relationship with nature and how we continue to shape it. Describing the work of Heather Murphy in the current exhibition (by Julia Borrebaeck)In this month’s exhibition, Heather Murphy constructed a highly modern take on how people are constantly bombarded with information on the Internet. She made three short videos filled with devastating news mixed with entertainment clips, depicting the sharp contrast between the two most common types of news. Besides her way of portraying this, through using characteristics from popular digital platforms such as tweets from twitter, she has also chosen an interesting medium. You have to connect your smartphone to one of three video specific Wi-Fi networks and then open the safari app to view the video. On display at the exhibition is essentially three routers, headphones and instructions how to access the videos. Just as the phenomenon portrayed in the videos, the videos themselves are “only virtually present in the space”. These two images shows the contrast between the entertainment icon Taylor Swift and an extremist environment. Experiencing “Kalapani” (artist Andrew Ananda Voogel) (by Taylor R. McAllister)In the back of the Worth Ryder Art Gallery are two tall onyx curtains as doors to another space. Curious viewers will not be deterred by what immediately follows them: a black room, so dark that one cannot see their hand in front of their face. “There has to be more”, is what runs through the minds of most viewers. And there is. Curiosity gets you in, but patience gives you the art piece. By thirty seconds of standing hyperaware in the dark, flickers appear on a previously indistinguishable opposite wall. At two minutes, the viewer is hypnotized by the rhythmic movements of a dark film that is barely there. Gentle pale white bands of light flow back and forth; with one’s eyes adjusted they can see the subtle details of waves rolling over the dark land, meeting other waves, and a rock in the ocean standing against them. The mood of “Kalapani” for me was one of mild unease and uncertainty, as we do not usually stand in such darkness. And even with one’s eyes adjusted to the film and space, it is still impossible to see what is further out at sea. It is a great wide unknown far more mysterious than when seen in daylight. There is a mild sense of being at the edge of a precipice. And yet, as I watched the movement of the waves was a visual lullaby of light that balanced that feeling. The repetitive push-pull motions maintained the well-known sense of breathing that the ocean gives, despite the darkness. In its own way, the video was both unsettling and meditative. And as contrary as it seems, these two opposites stem from the same elements of the piece: the darkness and the vastness of the ocean.  Andrew Voogel’s work is a beautiful experience, and quite a view.Text edit: And yet as I watched the movement, the waves were a visual lullaby of light that balanced that feeling. Soey Milk’s “PIDA” in Hashimoto Contemporary (by Celia Chu)Soey Milk is one of my favorite Los Angeles artists that I first discovered through her Instagram profile, @soeymilky. Her art speaks of self empowerment and exploration of the human body. Her mesmerizing perfection of detail line work and pressure
of the utensils to capture wide variations ofgradients. There is an elegance to her distinct yet abstract line work that plays well with the meaning behind each and every defined graphite pieces with the incorporation of oils. I wanted to solely focus on her as a blossoming artist, as well as her most recent solo artist show, “PIDA” in Hashimoto Contemporary. PIDA is still open to the public by this Saturday, October 24, 2015. PIDA is an expression of growth, and more precisely – a blossoming effect. I personally see Soey Milk as a growing artist, and she captivates her audience with fine fabrics and mesh materials in her realistic pieces. Cirrus is a mystical piece I encountered and is also being sold at the gallery space. The curvaceous depiction of a woman is filled with emotion from border-to-border all the way to the fine line details of the speckled hair on her head to her pointed toes. The essence of deep reds draping her torso to the slight touches of peachy pinks on the soles of her feet define the signature color palette of what reds signify; blooming. The remnants of color surrounding this whimsy piece is romantic and touches on a sense of renewal. The abstraction in the background does not take away from the piece, it only enhances the subject of this woman.
 For more information about her work and talent, click here for her website. Faculty Log-inThe Worth Ryder Art Gallery Publicity Interns regularly review exhibitions, interview undergrads, and write about artwork for our News page.Gordon Hall, a performance artist, writer, and founder of the Center for Experimental Lectures recently came to give a propositional and improvisational lecture at UC Berkeley. For me the lecture redefined and expanded what can be considered an artist’s talk. Two figures were positioned within the space, completely still and motionless. Hall, who was in the corner of the room perched upon a pedestal, began gestures and movement, slowly moving themselves in different variations. As they announced act 1, scene 1, phase 1, they got up from the pedestal and began to move and interact with two large wooden parentheses. As both Gordon and the other performer moved throughout the space with the large wooden parentheses, the conversation began.Hall read aloud twice in the performance, as well as from their phone, with imagery that to me felt like recalling a memory. The words were colors, objects, items, and feelings all of which in sighted something in me that created certain feelings of nostalgia. Although I don’t completely understand the relationship between the performance and the recalling of these writings, after Hall repeated it, I tried to imagine and feel what they were describing for the rest of the piece. Parts of the performance were also with the lights off, which I found to be a really sensory experience. One could see shadows occasionally, you could hear them moving, and as a performer moved close to where you were sitting, you felt their bodily presence.Overall, this piece has so many different layers and complexities within itself. I loved how this piece confronted language and challenged how we perceive it. It made me think a lot more about the body and how we can transmit such an array of information. Also, coming from a background and understanding that artist’s lectures are where the artist talks at the audience and then might do a question and answer period at the end of the talk, this piece was able to challenge and shift the ways that artists can provide information through creating a new conversation. Artists don’t necessarily have to do a report on their work but instead convey the meaning of their work through a performance such as this. I found Gordon inspiring, and I’m excited to follow their work as it progresses in the future.* * *   * * *Tell me about yourself.My name is Erin Kim and I am a junior majoring in Landscape Architecture. I have been interested in art and design since I was in elementary school. Ever since I became passionate about art, I enjoyed going to art galleries and museums to get inspirations, and explore new ideas to motivate myself.What work do you most enjoying doing?I enjoy working with a variety of medium including acrylic, oil paint, ink, colored pencils, graphite, and more. I like to combine different types of medium to create more interesting effects.What themes do you pursue?I don’t really have a theme that I want to pursue through my works but I try to create works that are meaningful to me. The process that I go through before starting an art piece is that I go over all the photo albums and try to choose a moment or subject that I want to make special by adding aesthetic view to the specific subject.What inspired you to major in landscape and minor in art?I was undeclared in College of Letters and Science until the second semester of my sophomore year. The major factor that motivated me to transfer to College of Environmental Design was taking an Environmental Design (ED) class second semester of freshman year. Although I knew that I was interested in art and design, I was uncertain about what I wanted to major in. I had a lot of fun in ED class; the class was about problem solving projects using art and design knowledge. Then I looked more into the Landscape Architecture department and took some Landscape classes then declared as Landscape architecture major. I also wanted to pursue my artistic view by minoring in art.How much drawing do you have to go through to prepare for a piece?I spend a lot of time coming up with an idea for an art piece. I do some quick sketches of all the ideas I have and narrow down to what I want specifically.What is your dream project? What’s your goal?My goal is to continue creating art works that are meaningful to me. I always feel that photography is a temporary snapshot of memories. But creating an artwork of the special moment can last longer and remain more valuable to me. My dream project is to create a series of special moments of four years in college.* * *Professor Scott Saul from our neighboring English Department at UC Berkeley has a new podcast show, Chapter & Verse, which features discursive conversations between himself and other academics/critics of media culture. In this episode, Professor Saul brings on Professor Julia Bryan-Wilson of the UC Berkeley History of Art Department to discuss the art of Yoko Ono.Critical attention to Ono’s work and its centrality within a number of artistic movements, especially her creative output through the 1960s, was for many years lost to an amnesiac cultural narrative which has long held Ono merely as the collaborator, muse, and widow of pop legend John Lennon. Her work—ranging widely from performance art, to instructional pieces, to video and beyond—and its importance to the history of contemporary art have recently regained recognition through exhibitions such as MoMa’s “Yoko Ono: One Woman Show, 1960-1971”. Here, Professor Saul along with Professor Bryan-Wilson honor this story which regards Ono as an artist first and foremost, helping audiences recall why Ono’s work stands on its own. The talk involves a rich examination of Ono’s personal story, its influence on her ever-evolving creative process, and the formal risks present in Ono’s art which warrant its acclaim.* * *We all choose to be an art major, and an art major specifically in Berkeley.  As a soon to be graduate of this program, and a local of the Bay Area since I was a child- the thoughts of what can this community do for me has come to mind more often than once.  With the tech-industry boom, San Francisco and Oakland have been in the spotlight a lot these days, but do people on a creative career have a place within this spotlight?Through my research I have found that artist are this community here in the Bay Area, which is why I want to remind everyone about Oaklands First Fridays, starting up again on March 4th.  With their vision statement of “striv[ing] to be the premier Oakland First Fridays Event as the epicenter for the community to come together to celebrate, sustain & support the arts,”  this event has brought everyone together within the Oakland and the arts community.  This tradition started in 2006, with the Art Murmur events, which has now transformed in the this esteemed event for all to enjoy.According to a report written by Victoria Swift, “Economics Impact of the Oakland First Fridays”, this event is supporting more than just the arts communities.  The influx of people coming in has had an amazing impact on the local businesses, some owners stating a 100 to 250 percent increase in profits on event nights.We are in a great place for our art.  We just need to help support the community we are going to a part of because the horizon of graduation comes quicker than you expect.With your free AC bus transit card, take the 1 route and walk a few blocks for the First Friday event starting this month.Faculty Log-inArt Practice undergraduate student Ramon De Santiago has been selected as a Haas Scholar for the 2016-2017 academic year. They had the largest number of applicants ever in the history of the program this year, so the department if very proud of  Ramon’s accomplishment.What makes a Haas Scholar? Well, they are:*Academically Talented: value learning both for its own sake and to make a difference in the world
*Community-Oriented:  desire to be part of an interdisciplinary academic community by learning from one’s peers 
*Future Leaders:  ready to take on the challenge of conducting an independent research or creative project that will culminate in a senior/honors thesisWhat does a Haas Scholar receive? Well:*One-on-one mentoring from members of the UC-Berkeley faculty
 *A seminar in the Fall (1 units, P/NP) and a writing workshop in the Spring to assist with the research and writing process
 *An opportunity to present the results of your work at a professional academic conference in January
 *Assistance with graduate school and fellowship applications, career counseling, connections with almost 400 Haas Scholars alumni, and other support to help you realize your individual post-graduation plans 
 *Membership in an alumni community (nearly 400 strong and growing each year!) that provides ongoing professional development and support
 *Financial support during their fellowship year which includes a summer living stipend, a semester/academic year living stipend, research expenses, and a completion stipendThis is a huge accomplishment, and so a big shout-out to Ramon! Faculty Log-inFrom the artist:“My work systematically chronicles different layers of my identity, with the goal of deconstructing basic epistemological categories that separate the aesthetic from the everyday, the sacred from the profane. I look at the repetitive gestures embedded in folklore, religion, and ideology through various means of expression from painting, ceramics, photography, video, and performance to interviews, collaborations, texts, relics, and ready-mades. I position myself as a shaman who seeks to unveil the masks of history. My goal is to create transformative healing experiences for my viewers, surroundings, and former selves.”For more information on Jose Figueroa and the Headlands Center for the Arts: http://www.headlands.org/artist/jose-figueroa/Faculty Log-in“We are not simply one demographic or another. The different descriptors framing us may in part describe us, but the pictures they draw are incomplete. For some they become qualifiers making one a subset of the whole, addendums that keeps one from being referred to as what we desire to be…” (more)Slide Space is an exciting new exhibition space at Mills College.Opening : Wednesday, September 14, 6:00 – 8:00 p.m.Exhibition curated by our co-director Jackie ImFaculty Log-inThe Department of Art Practice is pleased to announce that our 2017 Commencement Speaker will be Bay Area artist Mildred Howard. Commencement will be on Monday, May 15th at Hertz Hall .Mildred Howard, “Laila Ali”, 2010. Mixed Media Assemblage, 56″ x 22″ x 14″. Courtesy Anglim Gilbert Gallery. Known for her sculptural installations and mixed media assemblage work, Mildred Howard has been the recipient of numerous awards, including the Adeline Kent Award from the San Francisco Art Institute, the Joan Mitchell Foundation and a fellowship from the California Arts Council. Her work has been exhibited internationally including recent shows in Berlin, Cairo, and Bath, England. Large scale installations have been mounted at the Richmond Art Center, Creative Time in New York, in SITE San Diego, the National Museum of Women in the Arts, and the New Museum in New York. Public commissions and installations were executed for the Museum of Glass in Tacoma, Washington, the City of Oakland, the San Francisco Arts Commission and International Airport, and the San Jose Museum of Art.View artwork by Mildred Howard on the Anglim Gilbert Gallery website.* * * Like UC Berkeley Art Practice Events on FacebookFollow Worth Ryder Art Gallery on InstagramJoin our email list to receive invitations to exhibitions at the Worth Ryder Art Gallery, the Wiesenfeld Visiting Artist Lecture Series, and select Department of Art Practice events.  Faculty Log-inEach year, BAMPFA and the University of California, Berkeley Department of Art Practice work together to present an exhibition of works by Berkeley MFA graduates. This year’s graduates are Takming Chuang, Lucas DeGiulio, Behnaz Khaleghi, Shari Paladino, Jovi Schnell, and Andrew Wilson. Be among the first to encounter the recent work of these six exceptional artists.There will also be an Artist’s Talk and Opening Reception (the reception is for current BAMPFA members and guests of the artists) on May 17h.Please the BAMPFA website for more details.The 47th Annual University of California, Berkeley Master of Fine Arts Graduate Exhibition is organized by Curatorial Assistant Matthew Coleman and Assistant Curator Stephanie Cannizzo. The annual MFA exhibition is made possible by the Barbara Berelson Wiltsek Endowment.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.This class will investigate the potential of ceramics as sculpture.  Both traditional and experimental approaches to ceramics will be explored as a way to develop our technical skills and expand our conceptual approaches.  Field trips and illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.This new course will enable students to think critically about, and engage in practical experiments in, the complex interactions between new media and perceptions and performances of embodiment, agency, citizenship, collective action, individual identity, time and spatiality. We will pay particular attention to the categories of personhood that make up the UC Berkeley American Cultures rubric (race and ethnicity), as well as to gender, nation, and disability. The argument threading through the course will be the ways in which new media both reinforce pre-existing social hierarchies, and yet offer possibilities for the transcendence of those very categories. The new media — and we will leave the precise definition of the new media as something to be argued about over the course of the semester — can be yet another means for dividing and disenfranchising, and can be the conduit of violence and transnational dominance.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. In the course of making screenprints, you will be encouraged to find an esthetic direction of your own. Your instructor will also help you develop skill in using both stone and metal plates.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Installation and site-specific work, indoor and outdoor. Each student will select a site on campus and make a piece for that site. The choice of materials will depend on the exigencies of the site and of the student’s interest.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.This is an advanced interdisciplinary class with a focus on material culture, studio production, reading, and critical theory on capitalism’s effects on the production of art, as well as artists’ responses to its demands.What does it mean to make “objects” in a world already glutted with object-products? How does the mechanical or mass production of object-products inform or create friction against the intimately handmade? This class will ask students to examine their own methods and materials of “object-making”, situate themselves against a contemporary context of global manufacturing and “product-making,” and attempt to reclaim the idea of sculpture as a social catalyst as opposed to standard consumer object.Topics covered will include the readymade and globalization, the unique object versus the mass-produced, artists who mimic corporate production and distribution chains, and the social and political effects of production, consumption, capitalism, and the various forms of resistance to it such as shopdropping, counterfeiting, public ownership, and the DIY craft movement. Art movements such as the Bauhaus and the Arts and Crafts Movement will be explored as examples of responses to the dilemma of mass production. We will also cover the intersection of art and design, looking at groups such as Atelier Van Lieshout, Unfold, Futurefarmers, and Andrea Zittel, among others.Students will utilize traditional sculptural mediums, ceramics, and craft techniques as well as simple 3-D computer modeling programs, free object databases, and digital processes, among others. Project assignments are structured to take advantage of individual students’ interests, while at the same time providing distinct parameters and goals. We will also be looking extensively at contemporary artists working today, and discussing how their art reflects upon and impacts the world around them. A museum field trip, collaborative project, visiting artist talks, and and workshops/demos will be included. Regular readings will be assigned, with discussion and response to follow.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Topics of concern to the instructor, usually related to current research, which may fall outside of the normal curriculum or be of more restricted content than regular studio courses. An opportunity to investigate topics and mediums on an ad hoc basis when there is a compelling reason to do so, providing there is no other course that deals with these concerns.Prerequisite: Consent of instructor.Nine hours of studio per week. This advanced studio course is designed for students who have mastered basic skills and concepts involved in digital video production and are interested in further investigating critical, theoretical, and creative research topics in digital video production. Also listed as Film and Media C187.Prerequisites: Film 100, 185 with a grade of A- or better and consent of instructor.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.*Please note that there are TWO sections for this course*Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. A study of drawing as a tool for articulating what the eyes, hand, and mind discover and investigate when coordinated. Some sessions will be devoted to drawing the human figure. Art 13 is an entry-level painting course designed to familiarize students with the materials, technical approaches, and processes of painting. Through a series of exercises, assignments, and visual presentations, we will investigate color interaction, contextual relationships, conceptual and compositional strategies, and the relationship between (subject, content, meaning) and process. Twentieth century painting history and theory will be referenced throughout our time together.Consistent attendance is an important factor for this class to be a success. There will be a roster sheet for you to sign each day when you arrive. More than two absences will affect your final grade by one half. Two more absences will drop you another half. *PLEASE NOTE there are TWO SECTIONS given: 14/1 AND 14/2 and that Art 14/2 is Ceramics*This course will use ceramics as a way to explore and understand three-dimensional space.  The student will develop a practical understanding of how clay and glaze behave, while building a conceptual framework through which to apply this knowledge.  Studio practice includes hand building, modeling, carving and glazing as possibilities for turning ideas into three-dimensional propositions.  Illustrated talks will help acquaint the student with the ideas artists have explored through history and in contemporary sculptural practices. Course may be repeated for credit.Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. This course examines and explores various print disciplines in a 15-week survey format. Students study and create traditional forms of fine art printmaking including woodcut, lithography, intaglio, and screenprinting as well as newer approaches which includes transfer and digital printmaking. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications. This course is a prerequisite for upper division print courses.This course provides students with the technological and conceptual groundwork for advanced courses in video art and film making including the use of digital cameras, sound recording, basic lighting techniques, digital editing, compression, and online dissemination. As we work to understand what makes compelling moving images that elicit powerful intellectual and emotional responses, the teaching goals include mastering the basic elements of video making: duration, composition, light, color, relationships between sound and image, as well as creative approaches to editing such as dramatic continuity and montage. The course also explores the range of techniques and languages of creative video making from traditional story genres to more contemporary experimental forms, and is based on online tools for production, dissemination, and commentary. The course consists of a weekly lecture including screenings, discussion, and meetings with visual artists, and a lab section. The lab is a production workshop in which students receive hands-on instruction and produce a series of short exercises and a final project.Often artists respond to limitations, whether self-imposed or life-imposed by lack of time, space or budget. But limitations are not always restrictions. Finding creative responses to limitations or boundaries can lead to unsuspected solutions. Many painters use specific limitations that propel their work into unexpected territories through their process, their materials or by finding ways of working that manifest as a result of an environmental or other constraint.During this course, students will achieve the maximum impact within limited means. Through in-class and more in-depth projects, limitation exercises, and technical painting workshops, students will explore strategies that involve process, collaboration and project-based painting using limitation as a source of propulsion in their work. Emphasis will be placed on focusing one’s practice, as well as honing the skills needed to realize projects.Students will study artists who utilize specialized processes, boundaries and strategies to guide and develop their work. The class will be supplemented by field trips and readings.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Inquiry into concepts of order, process, and content as related to human experience. While faculty contact with students is highly individualized, the course involves group critiques and lectures as well as assigned field trips. Prerequisites 10, 12, and 14 or equivalents.The primary focus of this course is to advance fundamental technical skills in the process of figure drawing, to gain understanding of human anatomy, and to acquire a personal visual language of drawing from life. Through close observation of the human form the student will develop ways of seeing that go beyond regular visual perception. The student will also expand the skills necessary for figure drawing executed in variety of dry and wet media, together with diverse methodologies of traditional and contemporary figure drawing.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Advanced drawing and composition, color and black-and-white, primarily on paper. Art 117 or 118 is required of all art majors.Prerequisites: 12, 13, and 14 or equivalents.This course is designed to explore a range of contemporary art movements around the globe, through a closer look at their central ideas, artists, and artworks, as well as the preconditions and broader social context in which the work is being produced. Topics covered will range from the emergence of localized avant-garde movements in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America to the implicit globalism of the international biennial circuit.  In this class the student will consider sculptural issues of (and beyond) the object itself, notions of “site specific,” and of whether an object is distinct from its environment or is part of it. We will also question issues of space, placement, installation, context, and public interaction. Students will engage with a variety of sites, both on and off campus, with drawings and written proposals being an integral part of all projects. Lectures and demonstrations will introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Prerequisites: 8, 12, and 14, or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Projects are aimed at understanding and inventing ways in which time and change can become key elements in an artwork. Regular screenings of professional tapes will illustrate uses of the mediums and provide a historical context.Prerequisites: 10, 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.This is an advanced studio drawing course that compares and contrasts traditional Asian and European pigments, surfaces, and images with contemporary strategies, sources, and methods.  Students will use various traditional hand-made pigments, binders, papers, and drawing materials to explore cultural developments and representations of space, time, and objects. A major course outcome is to create hybrid, diverse content that combines contemporary images and narratives with traditional historic sources. The course provides lectures, demonstrations and studio research methodologies.Six hours of lecture and two hours of discussion per week. Social Practice broadly refers to work produced through various forms of direct engagement with a site, social system or collaborator. Interdisciplinary in nature, such work often takes the form of guerilla interventions, performance, institutional critique, community based public art and political activity, all sharing the premise that art created in the public sphere can help alter public perception and work toward social transformation.Four hours of lecture per week. Prerequisites: Completion of all lower division requirements for the major. Meditation is arguably the most ancient, powerful, and yet simple spiritual practice in the world. It is known in various forms in nearly all times and cultures, and plays a part in every religious tradition. We will examine how meditation can affect your art both in terms of practice and content. The class will be structured with slide presentations, museum visits, discussion of reading, and reviews of art work. Art from various contemplative traditions will be examined.What does it mean to “begin” video?There are reportedly 100 hours of video uploaded to YouTube every minute, added to a flood of footage already in torrent. Add to that all the other video sites online, the duration of every new TV show and the thousands of movies released every year, plus more than a century’s worth of the older stuff, and we are lost in an ocean of moving images. It’s a wonder we haven’t drowned.Maybe the question should: what does it mean to continue video?Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. This hands-on studio course is designed to introduce students to the foundation-level skills and concepts used in digital video production. In the course of mastering the basics of optics, sound recording, and editing, students will find creative video responses to formal assignments that explore such questions of scale, duration, narrative, and the use of video as a component in a larger work. In an effort to find alternatives to conventional  models and expand our experience of the medium, the student will experiment with unorthodox image capturing devices like GoPros and digital scanners, and with unusual approaches to screening, such as installations and non-standard monitors.Prerequisite: Art 23ACSix hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated for credit.
This is a studio class designed to introduce artists to the medium of sound. Students will learn the basic skills necessary to work with audio, including microphones, digital recording, editing and processing, speaker and installation design, and circuit-bending. In addition, students will learn about the history of sound art and the ways in which visual art and experimental sound practice inform and expand upon each other.Course Format: Two hours of lecture and seven hours of studio per week.
Description: This class provides a basic foundation for digital photography with hands-on instruction in the use of digital cameras and online image dissemination. Topics include image capture, composition, image syntax, image analysis, image manipulation, metatext production, and image sequencing for visual narratives. We also study image dissemination through online networks including social networks, blogs, news, storage, search, and print services. Rather than limiting the discussion of photography to the production of the photographic image itself, we explore in written assignments how the reception of images can change based on context, usage, and network dynamics. While we rely on required DSLR digital cameras to produce images for weekly photographic assignments, we also experiment with alternate digital image generation techniques from telescopes to microscopes. All coursework will be posted and discussed online as well as in weekly lectures, workshops, and critiques. Course readings cover the history of photography, the theory of photographic reproduction and the theory of networked and memetic dissemination*Please note that there are TWO sections of this class, K185/001 AND K185/002Three hours of lecture and three hours of studio critique per week. This course provides students with a foundation for understanding their work within a cross-disciplinary critical context. Through class and individual critique, readings, guest artists, and field trips, students will explore the practical and conceptual components of their own media and practice within a broader discussion of artistic production. In addition to this focused attention on the critique process, the class with address the ongoing needs of supporting one’s work within a community of artists, arts professionals, and arts organizations. Each student will work towards developing the most effective tools for communicating their work to these broader audiences using strategies that are appropriate/effective for their ideas, media, and audience.Prerequisites: Senior level students only.Course may be repeated for credit. Hours to be arranged. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program. M.F.A. candidates, special study – M.F.A. Committee members as well as other faculty.See catalog for course description.Course may be repeated for credit. Three hours of seminar per week. Studio work emphasizing various aspects of form. Group criticism. Intended especially for M.F.A. candidates. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Weekly meetings will provide a forum for the discussion of issues related to assigned readings in the fields of esthetics, theory and art criticism. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.The 301 Pedagogy Seminar is a preparation for GSI’s and is aligned directly with the teaching of Art 8: Introduction to Visual Thinking. Within our pre-semester pedagogy meetings, each graduate student develops a syllabus with emphasis on teaching philosophy, course content, approach to grading, attendance policy, and critique approach and style. Graduate students develop lesson plans and relational formal exercises for each of the course’s three main projects. Instructors receive the Art 8 Pedagogy manual, which contains twenty years of GSI’s syllabi and other helpful information. During our weekly semester pedagogy meetings, the graduate students and I discuss the pertinent issues of their current classroom dynamics. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Consent of instructor.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.This class will investigate the potential of ceramics as sculpture.  Both traditional and experimental approaches to ceramics will be explored as a way to develop our technical skills and expand our conceptual approaches.  Field trips and illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.This new course will enable students to think critically about, and engage in practical experiments in, the complex interactions between new media and perceptions and performances of embodiment, agency, citizenship, collective action, individual identity, time and spatiality. We will pay particular attention to the categories of personhood that make up the UC Berkeley American Cultures rubric (race and ethnicity), as well as to gender, nation, and disability. The argument threading through the course will be the ways in which new media both reinforce pre-existing social hierarchies, and yet offer possibilities for the transcendence of those very categories. The new media — and we will leave the precise definition of the new media as something to be argued about over the course of the semester — can be yet another means for dividing and disenfranchising, and can be the conduit of violence and transnational dominance.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. In the course of making screenprints, you will be encouraged to find an esthetic direction of your own. Your instructor will also help you develop skill in using both stone and metal plates.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Installation and site-specific work, indoor and outdoor. Each student will select a site on campus and make a piece for that site. The choice of materials will depend on the exigencies of the site and of the student’s interest.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Topics of concern to the instructor, usually related to current research, which may fall outside of the normal curriculum or be of more restricted content than regular studio courses. An opportunity to investigate topics and mediums on an ad hoc basis when there is a compelling reason to do so, providing there is no other course that deals with these concerns.Prerequisite: Consent of instructor.This is an advanced interdisciplinary class with a focus on material culture, studio production, reading, and critical theory on capitalism’s effects on the production of art, as well as artists’ responses to its demands.What does it mean to make “objects” in a world already glutted with object-products? How does the mechanical or mass production of object-products inform or create friction against the intimately handmade? This class will ask students to examine their own methods and materials of “object-making”, situate themselves against a contemporary context of global manufacturing and “product-making,” and attempt to reclaim the idea of sculpture as a social catalyst as opposed to standard consumer object.Topics covered will include the readymade and globalization, the unique object versus the mass-produced, artists who mimic corporate production and distribution chains, and the social and political effects of production, consumption, capitalism, and the various forms of resistance to it such as shopdropping, counterfeiting, public ownership, and the DIY craft movement. Art movements such as the Bauhaus and the Arts and Crafts Movement will be explored as examples of responses to the dilemma of mass production. We will also cover the intersection of art and design, looking at groups such as Atelier Van Lieshout, Unfold, Futurefarmers, and Andrea Zittel, among others.Students will utilize traditional sculptural mediums, ceramics, and craft techniques as well as simple 3-D computer modeling programs, free object databases, and digital processes, among others. Project assignments are structured to take advantage of individual students’ interests, while at the same time providing distinct parameters and goals. We will also be looking extensively at contemporary artists working today, and discussing how their art reflects upon and impacts the world around them. A museum field trip, collaborative project, visiting artist talks, and and workshops/demos will be included. Regular readings will be assigned, with discussion and response to follow.This immersive studio/seminar class focuses on contemporary models of art making, exposing students to current issues in the art world, and fostering interdisciplinary models of thinking and making. Through field trips to museums, galleries, and alternative art spaces, as well as studio visits with local contemporary artists, students will be able to situate their own projects within the larger sphere of contemporary art. Language and writing skills around artist statements, critical readings, and the critique process will be emphasized to understand how research methods give meaning in a studio practice. Presentation of a final studio project asks students to examine their place within a contemporary art dialogue.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.*Please note that there are TWO sections for this course*Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. A study of drawing as a tool for articulating what the eyes, hand, and mind discover and investigate when coordinated. Some sessions will be devoted to drawing the human figure. Art 13 is an entry-level painting course designed to familiarize students with the materials, technical approaches, and processes of painting. Through a series of exercises, assignments, and visual presentations, we will investigate color interaction, contextual relationships, conceptual and compositional strategies, and the relationship between (subject, content, meaning) and process. Twentieth century painting history and theory will be referenced throughout our time together.Consistent attendance is an important factor for this class to be a success. There will be a roster sheet for you to sign each day when you arrive. More than two absences will affect your final grade by one half. Two more absences will drop you another half.This course is the study of the interaction between physical form and space. We will focus on building a strong conceptual foundation while developing the practical studio skills needed to translate your ideas into three dimensions. Shop practices will include hand, machine, and computer-aided fabrications. Field trips and illustrated talks will help acquaint students with the ideas sculptors have explored through history and in contemporary sculptural practices.This class will investigate the potential of ceramics as sculpture.  Both traditional and experimental approaches to ceramics will be explored as a way to develop our technical skills and expand our conceptual approaches.  Field trips and illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.This course examines and explores various print disciplines. Students study and create traditional forms of fine art printmaking including woodcut, lithography, intaglio, and screenprinting as well as newer approaches which include transfer and digital printmaking. This course is a prerequisite for upper division print courses. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.This course provides students with the technological and conceptual groundwork for advanced courses in video art and film making including the use of digital cameras, sound recording, basic lighting techniques, digital editing, compression, and online dissemination. As we work to understand what makes compelling moving images that elicit powerful intellectual and emotional responses, the teaching goals include mastering the basic elements of video making: duration, composition, light, color, relationships between sound and image, as well as creative approaches to editing such as dramatic continuity and montage. The course also explores the range of techniques and languages of creative video making from traditional story genres to more contemporary experimental forms, and is based on online tools for production, dissemination, and commentary. The course consists of a weekly lecture including screenings, discussion, and meetings with visual artists, and a lab section. The lab is a production workshop in which students receive hands-on instruction and produce a series of short exercises and a final project.Often artists respond to limitations, whether self-imposed or life-imposed by lack of time, space or budget. But limitations are not always restrictions. Finding creative responses to limitations or boundaries can lead to unsuspected solutions. Many painters use specific limitations that propel their work into unexpected territories through their process, their materials or by finding ways of working that manifest as a result of an environmental or other constraint.During this course, students will achieve the maximum impact within limited means. Through in-class and more in-depth projects, limitation exercises, and technical painting workshops, students will explore strategies that involve process, collaboration and project-based painting using limitation as a source of propulsion in their work. Emphasis will be placed on focusing one’s practice, as well as honing the skills needed to realize projects.Students will study artists who utilize specialized processes, boundaries and strategies to guide and develop their work. The class will be supplemented by field trips and readings.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Inquiry into concepts of order, process, and content as related to human experience. While faculty contact with students is highly individualized, the course involves group critiques and lectures as well as assigned field trips. Prerequisites 10, 12, and 14 or equivalents.This course is designed to explore a range of contemporary art movements around the globe, through a closer look at their central ideas, artists, and artworks, as well as the preconditions and broader social context in which the work is being produced. Topics covered will range from the emergence of localized avant-garde movements in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America to the implicit globalism of the international biennial circuit. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. The process of Intaglio will be explored in a variety of image producing techniques. Hand drawn, photographic, and digitally manipulated images are combined to produce multiple works of limited edition fine art prints. Image content and development is examined through drawings, studies, slide lectures, group critiques, and direct assistance. Each student is required to attend all class periods and participate in group discussions and critique. It is the responsibility of the student to maintain a portfolio of all works executed during the semester and to turn in all assignments on time. The grade is determined by attendance, completion of projects and participation in critiques. Personal improvement will also be taken into account.Prerequisites: Open to upper division art majors or by consent of instructor.
Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.An opportunity to learn the many ways of shaping and giving form to wet clay, then making it permanent by firing it. Illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.This is an advanced studio drawing course that compares and contrasts traditional Asian and European pigments, surfaces, and images with contemporary strategies, sources, and methods.  Students will use various traditional hand-made pigments, binders, papers, and drawing materials to explore cultural developments and representations of space, time, and objects. A major course outcome is to create hybrid, diverse content that combines contemporary images and narratives with traditional historic sources. The course provides lectures, demonstrations and studio research methodologies.Six hours of lecture and two hours of discussion per week. Social Practice broadly refers to work produced through various forms of direct engagement with a site, social system or collaborator. Interdisciplinary in nature, such work often takes the form of guerilla interventions, performance, institutional critique, community based public art and political activity, all sharing the premise that art created in the public sphere can help alter public perception and work toward social transformation.Four hours of lecture per week. Prerequisites: Completion of all lower division requirements for the major. Meditation is arguably the most ancient, powerful, and yet simple spiritual practice in the world. It is known in various forms in nearly all times and cultures, and plays a part in every religious tradition. We will examine how meditation can affect your art both in terms of practice and content. The class will be structured with slide presentations, museum visits, discussion of reading, and reviews of art work. Art from various contemplative traditions will be examined.What does it mean to “begin” video?There are reportedly 100 hours of video uploaded to YouTube every minute, added to a flood of footage already in torrent. Add to that all the other video sites online, the duration of every new TV show and the thousands of movies released every year, plus more than a century’s worth of the older stuff, and we are lost in an ocean of moving images. It’s a wonder we haven’t drowned.Maybe the question should: what does it mean to continue video?Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. This hands-on studio course is designed to introduce students to the foundation-level skills and concepts used in digital video production. In the course of mastering the basics of optics, sound recording, and editing, students will find creative video responses to formal assignments that explore such questions of scale, duration, narrative, and the use of video as a component in a larger work. In an effort to find alternatives to conventional  models and expand our experience of the medium, the student will experiment with unorthodox image capturing devices like GoPros and digital scanners, and with unusual approaches to screening, such as installations and non-standard monitors.Prerequisite: Art 23ACNine hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated with consent of instructor. This course will cover a range of digital media and practices, with a view towards exploring current and future possibilities for photography. Inclusive of multiple approaches to scale, execution, and technique, the course enables students to examine and push the limits of photographic practices. This course will help students advance their digital shooting and Photoshop skills from a beginning to a more advanced level, and will cover the workflow of digital photography: camera usage, scanning, image editing, management, and printing. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated for credit.
This is a studio class designed to introduce artists to the medium of sound. Students will learn the basic skills necessary to work with audio, including microphones, digital recording, editing and processing, speaker and installation design, and circuit-bending. In addition, students will learn about the history of sound art and the ways in which visual art and experimental sound practice inform and expand upon each other.This immersive studio/seminar class focuses on contemporary models of art making, exposing students to current issues in the art world, and fostering interdisciplinary models of thinking and making. Through field trips to museums, galleries, and alternative art spaces, as well as studio visits with local contemporary artists, students will be able to situate their own projects within the larger sphere of contemporary art. Language and writing skills around artist statements, critical readings, and the critique process will be emphasized to understand how research methods give meaning in a studio practice. Presentation of a final studio project asks students to examine their place within a contemporary art dialogue.*Please note that there are TWO sections of this class, K185/001 AND K185/002Three hours of lecture and three hours of studio critique per week. This course provides students with a foundation for understanding their work within a cross-disciplinary critical context. Through class and individual critique, readings, guest artists, and field trips, students will explore the practical and conceptual components of their own media and practice within a broader discussion of artistic production. In addition to this focused attention on the critique process, the class with address the ongoing needs of supporting one’s work within a community of artists, arts professionals, and arts organizations. Each student will work towards developing the most effective tools for communicating their work to these broader audiences using strategies that are appropriate/effective for their ideas, media, and audience.Prerequisites: Senior level students only.The 301 Pedagogy Seminar is a preparation for GSI’s and is aligned directly with the teaching of Art 8: Introduction to Visual Thinking. Within our pre-semester pedagogy meetings, each graduate student develops a syllabus with emphasis on teaching philosophy, course content, approach to grading, attendance policy, and critique approach and style. Graduate students develop lesson plans and relational formal exercises for each of the course’s three main projects. Instructors receive the Art 8 Pedagogy manual, which contains twenty years of GSI’s syllabi and other helpful information. During our weekly semester pedagogy meetings, the graduate students and I discuss the pertinent issues of their current classroom dynamics. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Consent of instructor.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.*Please note that there are TWO sections for this course*Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. A study of drawing as a tool for articulating what the eyes, hand, and mind discover and investigate when coordinated. Some sessions will be devoted to drawing the human figure. Art 13 is an entry-level painting course designed to familiarize students with the materials, technical approaches, and processes of painting. Through a series of exercises, assignments, and visual presentations, we will investigate color interaction, contextual relationships, conceptual and compositional strategies, and the relationship between (subject, content, meaning) and process. Twentieth century painting history and theory will be referenced throughout our time together.Consistent attendance is an important factor for this class to be a success. There will be a roster sheet for you to sign each day when you arrive. More than two absences will affect your final grade by one half. Two more absences will drop you another half.This course is the study of the interaction between physical form and space. We will focus on building a strong conceptual foundation while developing the practical studio skills needed to translate your ideas into three dimensions. Shop practices will include hand, machine, and computer-aided fabrications. Field trips and illustrated talks will help acquaint students with the ideas sculptors have explored through history and in contemporary sculptural practices.This class will investigate the potential of ceramics as sculpture.  Both traditional and experimental approaches to ceramics will be explored as a way to develop our technical skills and expand our conceptual approaches.  Field trips and illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Description: This online course establishes internet citizenship as the process of forming online communities through participation. The course itself seeks to establish a community of learners, innovators, and explorers who engage with 23 principles of internet culture through missions. The missions include topics aggregation, networking, identity, amplification, and subversion. Students work in small groups with about five members and complete learning missions through research and creative assignments using photography, writing, video, and user interaction design.(F,SP) NiemeyerThe primary focus of this course is to advance fundamental technical skills in the process of figure drawing, to gain understanding of human anatomy, and to acquire a personal visual language of drawing from life. Through close observation of the human form the student will develop ways of seeing that go beyond regular visual perception. The student will also expand the skills necessary for figure drawing executed in variety of dry and wet media, together with diverse methodologies of traditional and contemporary figure drawing.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Advanced drawing and composition, color and black-and-white, primarily on paper. Art 117 or 118 is required of all art majors.Prerequisites: 12, 13, and 14 or equivalents.This course is designed to explore a range of contemporary art movements around the globe, through a closer look at their central ideas, artists, and artworks, as well as the preconditions and broader social context in which the work is being produced. Topics covered will range from the emergence of localized avant-garde movements in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America to the implicit globalism of the international biennial circuit. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. The process of Intaglio will be explored in a variety of image producing techniques. Hand drawn, photographic, and digitally manipulated images are combined to produce multiple works of limited edition fine art prints. Image content and development is examined through drawings, studies, slide lectures, group critiques, and direct assistance. Each student is required to attend all class periods and participate in group discussions and critique. It is the responsibility of the student to maintain a portfolio of all works executed during the semester and to turn in all assignments on time. The grade is determined by attendance, completion of projects and participation in critiques. Personal improvement will also be taken into account.Prerequisites: Open to upper division art majors or by consent of instructor.
Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. An opportunity to discover what an artist can do with an etching press and a familiarity with such processes as etching, drypoint, aquatint, color, and monotype printing. The difference in the ways that these mediums enhance and condition your ideas will be made clear through individual and group critiques.Prerequisites 12, 13, 14, or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. In the course of making screenprints, you will be encouraged to find an esthetic direction of your own. Your instructor will also help you develop skill in using both stone and metal plates.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Students who are experienced in clay may enroll in this course to continue developing their ideas and their technical command of ceramic materials and processes.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14, 132 or equivalents. In this class the student will consider sculptural issues of (and beyond) the object itself, notions of “site specific,” and of whether an object is distinct from its environment or is part of it. We will also question issues of space, placement, installation, context, and public interaction. Students will engage with a variety of sites, both on and off campus, with drawings and written proposals being an integral part of all projects. Lectures and demonstrations will introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Prerequisites: 8, 12, and 14, or equivalents.This is an advanced studio drawing course that compares and contrasts traditional Asian and European pigments, surfaces, and images with contemporary strategies, sources, and methods.  Students will use various traditional hand-made pigments, binders, papers, and drawing materials to explore cultural developments and representations of space, time, and objects. A major course outcome is to create hybrid, diverse content that combines contemporary images and narratives with traditional historic sources. The course provides lectures, demonstrations and studio research methodologies.Nine hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated with consent of instructor. This course will cover a range of digital media and practices, with a view towards exploring current and future possibilities for photography. Inclusive of multiple approaches to scale, execution, and technique, the course enables students to examine and push the limits of photographic practices. This course will help students advance their digital shooting and Photoshop skills from a beginning to a more advanced level, and will cover the workflow of digital photography: camera usage, scanning, image editing, management, and printing. Three hours of lecture and six hours of studio per week. This advanced studio course is designed for students who have mastered basic skills and concepts involved in digital video production, and are interested in further investigating critical, theoretical, and creative research topics in digital video production. Each week will include relevant readings, class discussions, guest speakers, demonstration of examples, and studio time for training and working on student assignmentsPrerequisites: 8, 12, and 23; or equivalents.Nine hours of studio per week. This advanced studio course is designed for students who have mastered basic skills and concepts involved in digital video production and are interested in further investigating critical, theoretical, and creative research topics in digital video production. Also listed as Film and Media C187.Prerequisites: Film 100, 185 with a grade of A- or better and consent of instructor.Two hours of lecture and four hours of studio per week. This course offers an introduction to game design and game studies. Game studies has five core elements: the study of games as transmitters of culture, the study of play and interactivity, the study of games as symbolic systems; the study of games as artifacts; and methods for creating games. We will study these core elements through play, play tests, play analysis, and comparative studies. Our reading list includes classic game studies theory and texts which support game design methods. After weekly writing and design exercises, our coursework will culminate in the design and evaluation of an original code-based game with a tangible interface. *Please note that there are TWO sections of this class, K185/001 AND K185/002Three hours of lecture and three hours of studio critique per week. This course provides students with a foundation for understanding their work within a cross-disciplinary critical context. Through class and individual critique, readings, guest artists, and field trips, students will explore the practical and conceptual components of their own media and practice within a broader discussion of artistic production. In addition to this focused attention on the critique process, the class with address the ongoing needs of supporting one’s work within a community of artists, arts professionals, and arts organizations. Each student will work towards developing the most effective tools for communicating their work to these broader audiences using strategies that are appropriate/effective for their ideas, media, and audience.Prerequisites: Senior level students only.Course may be repeated for credit. Hours to be arranged. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program. M.F.A. candidates, special study – M.F.A. Committee members as well as other faculty.Course may be repeated for credit. Three hours of seminar per week. Studio work emphasizing various aspects of form. Group criticism. Intended especially for M.F.A. candidates. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program.The 301 Pedagogy Seminar is a preparation for GSI’s and is aligned directly with the teaching of Art 8: Introduction to Visual Thinking. Within our pre-semester pedagogy meetings, each graduate student develops a syllabus with emphasis on teaching philosophy, course content, approach to grading, attendance policy, and critique approach and style. Graduate students develop lesson plans and relational formal exercises for each of the course’s three main projects. Instructors receive the Art 8 Pedagogy manual, which contains twenty years of GSI’s syllabi and other helpful information. During our weekly semester pedagogy meetings, the graduate students and I discuss the pertinent issues of their current classroom dynamics. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Consent of instructor.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.This course is the study of the interaction between physical form and space. We will focus on building a strong conceptual foundation while developing the practical studio skills needed to translate your ideas into three dimensions. Shop practices will include hand, machine, and computer-aided fabrications. Field trips and illustrated talks will help acquaint students with the ideas sculptors have explored through history and in contemporary sculptural practices.Often artists respond to limitations, whether self-imposed or life-imposed by lack of time, space or budget. But limitations are not always restrictions. Finding creative responses to limitations or boundaries can lead to unsuspected solutions. Many painters use specific limitations that propel their work into unexpected territories through their process, their materials or by finding ways of working that manifest as a result of an environmental or other constraint.During this course, students will achieve the maximum impact within limited means. Through in-class and more in-depth projects, limitation exercises, and technical painting workshops, students will explore strategies that involve process, collaboration and project-based painting using limitation as a source of propulsion in their work. Emphasis will be placed on focusing one’s practice, as well as honing the skills needed to realize projects.Students will study artists who utilize specialized processes, boundaries and strategies to guide and develop their work. The class will be supplemented by field trips and readings.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Inquiry into concepts of order, process, and content as related to human experience. While faculty contact with students is highly individualized, the course involves group critiques and lectures as well as assigned field trips. Prerequisites 10, 12, and 14 or equivalents.The primary focus of this course is to advance fundamental technical skills in the process of figure drawing, to gain understanding of human anatomy, and to acquire a personal visual language of drawing from life. Through close observation of the human form the student will develop ways of seeing that go beyond regular visual perception. The student will also expand the skills necessary for figure drawing executed in variety of dry and wet media, together with diverse methodologies of traditional and contemporary figure drawing.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Advanced drawing and composition, color and black-and-white, primarily on paper. Art 117 or 118 is required of all art majors.Prerequisites: 12, 13, and 14 or equivalents.This course is designed to explore a range of contemporary art movements around the globe, through a closer look at their central ideas, artists, and artworks, as well as the preconditions and broader social context in which the work is being produced. Topics covered will range from the emergence of localized avant-garde movements in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America to the implicit globalism of the international biennial circuit. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. The process of Intaglio will be explored in a variety of image producing techniques. Hand drawn, photographic, and digitally manipulated images are combined to produce multiple works of limited edition fine art prints. Image content and development is examined through drawings, studies, slide lectures, group critiques, and direct assistance. Each student is required to attend all class periods and participate in group discussions and critique. It is the responsibility of the student to maintain a portfolio of all works executed during the semester and to turn in all assignments on time. The grade is determined by attendance, completion of projects and participation in critiques. Personal improvement will also be taken into account.Prerequisites: Open to upper division art majors or by consent of instructor.
Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. An opportunity to discover what an artist can do with an etching press and a familiarity with such processes as etching, drypoint, aquatint, color, and monotype printing. The difference in the ways that these mediums enhance and condition your ideas will be made clear through individual and group critiques.Prerequisites 12, 13, 14, or equivalents.An opportunity to learn the many ways of shaping and giving form to wet clay, then making it permanent by firing it. Illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.This class will investigate the possibilities and potentials of sculptural material, both physically and conceptually. We will focus on a deeper exploration of the current state of art practice while questioning what methods and materials are considered non-traditional. We will discuss multiple applications as a means of mediating ideas in space, including sculpture, installation, video, photography and public exchanges. This class will have more advanced instruction in fabrications, including the wood and metal shops. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.This is an advanced studio drawing course that compares and contrasts traditional Asian and European pigments, surfaces, and images with contemporary strategies, sources, and methods.  Students will use various traditional hand-made pigments, binders, papers, and drawing materials to explore cultural developments and representations of space, time, and objects. A major course outcome is to create hybrid, diverse content that combines contemporary images and narratives with traditional historic sources. The course provides lectures, demonstrations and studio research methodologies.Six hours of lecture and two hours of discussion per week. Social Practice broadly refers to work produced through various forms of direct engagement with a site, social system or collaborator. Interdisciplinary in nature, such work often takes the form of guerilla interventions, performance, institutional critique, community based public art and political activity, all sharing the premise that art created in the public sphere can help alter public perception and work toward social transformation.Nine hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated with consent of instructor. This course will cover a range of digital media and practices, with a view towards exploring current and future possibilities for photography. Inclusive of multiple approaches to scale, execution, and technique, the course enables students to examine and push the limits of photographic practices. This course will help students advance their digital shooting and Photoshop skills from a beginning to a more advanced level, and will cover the workflow of digital photography: camera usage, scanning, image editing, management, and printing. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated for credit.
This is a studio class designed to introduce artists to the medium of sound. Students will learn the basic skills necessary to work with audio, including microphones, digital recording, editing and processing, speaker and installation design, and circuit-bending. In addition, students will learn about the history of sound art and the ways in which visual art and experimental sound practice inform and expand upon each other.This immersive studio/seminar class focuses on contemporary models of art making, exposing students to current issues in the art world, and fostering interdisciplinary models of thinking and making. Through field trips to museums, galleries, and alternative art spaces, as well as studio visits with local contemporary artists, students will be able to situate their own projects within the larger sphere of contemporary art. Language and writing skills around artist statements, critical readings, and the critique process will be emphasized to understand how research methods give meaning in a studio practice. Presentation of a final studio project asks students to examine their place within a contemporary art dialogue.*Please note that there are TWO sections of this class, K185/001 AND K185/002Three hours of lecture and three hours of studio critique per week. This course provides students with a foundation for understanding their work within a cross-disciplinary critical context. Through class and individual critique, readings, guest artists, and field trips, students will explore the practical and conceptual components of their own media and practice within a broader discussion of artistic production. In addition to this focused attention on the critique process, the class with address the ongoing needs of supporting one’s work within a community of artists, arts professionals, and arts organizations. Each student will work towards developing the most effective tools for communicating their work to these broader audiences using strategies that are appropriate/effective for their ideas, media, and audience.Prerequisites: Senior level students only.Course may be repeated for credit. Three hours of seminar per week. Studio work emphasizing various aspects of form. Group criticism. Intended especially for M.F.A. candidates. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program.The 301 Pedagogy Seminar is a preparation for GSI’s and is aligned directly with the teaching of Art 8: Introduction to Visual Thinking. Within our pre-semester pedagogy meetings, each graduate student develops a syllabus with emphasis on teaching philosophy, course content, approach to grading, attendance policy, and critique approach and style. Graduate students develop lesson plans and relational formal exercises for each of the course’s three main projects. Instructors receive the Art 8 Pedagogy manual, which contains twenty years of GSI’s syllabi and other helpful information. During our weekly semester pedagogy meetings, the graduate students and I discuss the pertinent issues of their current classroom dynamics. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Consent of instructor.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.*Please note that there are TWO sections for this course*Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. A study of drawing as a tool for articulating what the eyes, hand, and mind discover and investigate when coordinated. Some sessions will be devoted to drawing the human figure. Art 13 is an entry-level painting course designed to familiarize students with the materials, technical approaches, and processes of painting. Through a series of exercises, assignments, and visual presentations, we will investigate color interaction, contextual relationships, conceptual and compositional strategies, and the relationship between (subject, content, meaning) and process. Twentieth century painting history and theory will be referenced throughout our time together.Consistent attendance is an important factor for this class to be a success. There will be a roster sheet for you to sign each day when you arrive. More than two absences will affect your final grade by one half. Two more absences will drop you another half.This course is the study of the interaction between physical form and space. We will focus on building a strong conceptual foundation while developing the practical studio skills needed to translate your ideas into three dimensions. Shop practices will include hand, machine, and computer-aided fabrications. Field trips and illustrated talks will help acquaint students with the ideas sculptors have explored through history and in contemporary sculptural practices.This class will investigate the potential of ceramics as sculpture.  Both traditional and experimental approaches to ceramics will be explored as a way to develop our technical skills and expand our conceptual approaches.  Field trips and illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.In this hands-on, project-based class, students will experience group creativity and team-based design by using techniques from across the disciplines of business, theatre, design, and art practice. They will leverage problem framing and solving techniques derived from critical thinking, systems thinking, and creative problem solving (popularly known today as design thinking). The course is grounded in a brief weekly lecture that sets out the theoretical, historical, and cultural contexts for particular innovation practices, but the majority of the class involves hands-on studio-based learning guided by an interdisciplinary team of teachers leading small group collaborative projects. Often artists respond to limitations, whether self-imposed or life-imposed by lack of time, space or budget. But limitations are not always restrictions. Finding creative responses to limitations or boundaries can lead to unsuspected solutions. Many painters use specific limitations that propel their work into unexpected territories through their process, their materials or by finding ways of working that manifest as a result of an environmental or other constraint.During this course, students will achieve the maximum impact within limited means. Through in-class and more in-depth projects, limitation exercises, and technical painting workshops, students will explore strategies that involve process, collaboration and project-based painting using limitation as a source of propulsion in their work. Emphasis will be placed on focusing one’s practice, as well as honing the skills needed to realize projects.Students will study artists who utilize specialized processes, boundaries and strategies to guide and develop their work. The class will be supplemented by field trips and readings.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Inquiry into concepts of order, process, and content as related to human experience. While faculty contact with students is highly individualized, the course involves group critiques and lectures as well as assigned field trips. Prerequisites 10, 12, and 14 or equivalents.The primary focus of this course is to advance fundamental technical skills in the process of figure drawing, to gain understanding of human anatomy, and to acquire a personal visual language of drawing from life. Through close observation of the human form the student will develop ways of seeing that go beyond regular visual perception. The student will also expand the skills necessary for figure drawing executed in variety of dry and wet media, together with diverse methodologies of traditional and contemporary figure drawing.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Advanced drawing and composition, color and black-and-white, primarily on paper. Art 117 or 118 is required of all art majors.Prerequisites: 12, 13, and 14 or equivalents.This course is designed to explore a range of contemporary art movements around the globe, through a closer look at their central ideas, artists, and artworks, as well as the preconditions and broader social context in which the work is being produced. Topics covered will range from the emergence of localized avant-garde movements in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America to the implicit globalism of the international biennial circuit. Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. An opportunity to discover what an artist can do with an etching press and a familiarity with such processes as etching, drypoint, aquatint, color, and monotype printing. The difference in the ways that these mediums enhance and condition your ideas will be made clear through individual and group critiques.Prerequisites 12, 13, 14, or equivalents.Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. The process of Intaglio will be explored in a variety of image producing techniques. Hand drawn, photographic, and digitally manipulated images are combined to produce multiple works of limited edition fine art prints. Image content and development is examined through drawings, studies, slide lectures, group critiques, and direct assistance. Each student is required to attend all class periods and participate in group discussions and critique. It is the responsibility of the student to maintain a portfolio of all works executed during the semester and to turn in all assignments on time. The grade is determined by attendance, completion of projects and participation in critiques. Personal improvement will also be taken into account.Prerequisites: Open to upper division art majors or by consent of instructor.
Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. In the course of making screenprints, you will be encouraged to find an esthetic direction of your own. Your instructor will also help you develop skill in using both stone and metal plates.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Students who are experienced in clay may enroll in this course to continue developing their ideas and their technical command of ceramic materials and processes.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14, 132 or equivalents. In this class the student will consider sculptural issues of (and beyond) the object itself, notions of “site specific,” and of whether an object is distinct from its environment or is part of it. We will also question issues of space, placement, installation, context, and public interaction. Students will engage with a variety of sites, both on and off campus, with drawings and written proposals being an integral part of all projects. Lectures and demonstrations will introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Prerequisites: 8, 12, and 14, or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Projects are aimed at understanding and inventing ways in which time and change can become key elements in an artwork. Regular screenings of professional tapes will illustrate uses of the mediums and provide a historical context.Prerequisites: 10, 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.Topics of concern to the instructor, usually related to current research, which may fall outside of the normal curriculum or be of more restricted content than regular studio courses. An opportunity to investigate topics and mediums on an ad hoc basis when there is a compelling reason to do so, providing there is no other course that deals with these concerns. Primarily intended for advanced undergraduates and graduates in Art Practice but open to others. For special topics and enrollment see listings outside of 345 Kroeber. Prerequisites
Consent of instructor.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Topics of concern to the instructor, usually related to current research, which may fall outside of the normal curriculum or be of more restricted content than regular studio courses. An opportunity to investigate topics and mediums on an ad hoc basis when there is a compelling reason to do so, providing there is no other course that deals with these concerns. Primarily intended for advanced undergraduates and graduates in Art Practice but open to others. For special topics and enrollment see listings on the bulletin board outside of 345 Kroeber.This class will survey new media from a lens of personal transformation and artistic activism as means to create positive social change. Students will learn about different new media genres, such as experimental video, documentary, performance, sound and video installations, and they will create work based on these categories. This is an advanced studio drawing course that compares and contrasts traditional Asian and European pigments, surfaces, and images with contemporary strategies, sources, and methods.  Students will use various traditional hand-made pigments, binders, papers, and drawing materials to explore cultural developments and representations of space, time, and objects. A major course outcome is to create hybrid, diverse content that combines contemporary images and narratives with traditional historic sources. The course provides lectures, demonstrations and studio research methodologies.Nine hours of studio per week. This advanced studio course is designed for students who have mastered basic skills and concepts involved in digital video production and are interested in further investigating critical, theoretical, and creative research topics in digital video production. Also listed as Film and Media C187.Prerequisites: Film 100, 185 with a grade of A- or better and consent of instructor.Course may be repeated for credit. Hours to be arranged. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program. M.F.A. candidates, special study – M.F.A. Committee members as well as other faculty.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.*Please note that there are TWO sections for this course*Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. A study of drawing as a tool for articulating what the eyes, hand, and mind discover and investigate when coordinated. Some sessions will be devoted to drawing the human figure. Art 13 is an entry-level painting course designed to familiarize students with the materials, technical approaches, and processes of painting. Through a series of exercises, assignments, and visual presentations, we will investigate color interaction, contextual relationships, conceptual and compositional strategies, and the relationship between (subject, content, meaning) and process. Twentieth century painting history and theory will be referenced throughout our time together.Consistent attendance is an important factor for this class to be a success. There will be a roster sheet for you to sign each day when you arrive. More than two absences will affect your final grade by one half. Two more absences will drop you another half.This course is the study of the interaction between physical form and space. We will focus on building a strong conceptual foundation while developing the practical studio skills needed to translate your ideas into three dimensions. Shop practices will include hand, machine, and computer-aided fabrications. Field trips and illustrated talks will help acquaint students with the ideas sculptors have explored through history and in contemporary sculptural practices.This class will investigate the potential of ceramics as sculpture.  Both traditional and experimental approaches to ceramics will be explored as a way to develop our technical skills and expand our conceptual approaches.  Field trips and illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. This course examines and explores various print disciplines in a 15-week survey format. Students study and create traditional forms of fine art printmaking including woodcut, lithography, intaglio, and screenprinting as well as newer approaches which includes transfer and digital printmaking. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications. This course is a prerequisite for upper division print courses.This is a basic foundation class for digital photography with hands-on instruction in the use of digital cameras and online image dissemination. Topics include image capture, composition, image syntax, image analysis, image manipulation, meta-text production, and image sequencing for visual narratives. We also study image dissemination through online networks-social networks, blogs, news, storage, search, and print services.This new course will enable students to think critically about, and engage in practical experiments in, the complex interactions between new media and perceptions and performances of embodiment, agency, citizenship, collective action, individual identity, time and spatiality. We will pay particular attention to the categories of personhood that make up the UC Berkeley American Cultures rubric (race and ethnicity), as well as to gender, nation, and disability. The argument threading through the course will be the ways in which new media both reinforce pre-existing social hierarchies, and yet offer possibilities for the transcendence of those very categories. The new media — and we will leave the precise definition of the new media as something to be argued about over the course of the semester — can be yet another means for dividing and disenfranchising, and can be the conduit of violence and transnational dominance.This course provides students with the technological and conceptual groundwork for advanced courses in video art and filmmaking including the use of digital cameras, sound recording, basic lighting techniques, digital editing, compression, and online dissemination. We will focus on what makes compelling moving images that elicit powerful intellectual and emotional responses. The course also explores the range of techniques and languages of creative video making from traditional story genres to more contemporary experimental forms.
The course consists of weekly lectures, screenings, discussions and a lab section. The lab is a production workshop in which students will produce a series of short exercises and a final project. Often artists respond to limitations, whether self-imposed or life-imposed by lack of time, space or budget. But limitations are not always restrictions. Finding creative responses to limitations or boundaries can lead to unsuspected solutions. Many painters use specific limitations that propel their work into unexpected territories through their process, their materials or by finding ways of working that manifest as a result of an environmental or other constraint.During this course, students will achieve the maximum impact within limited means. Through in-class and more in-depth projects, limitation exercises, and technical painting workshops, students will explore strategies that involve process, collaboration and project-based painting using limitation as a source of propulsion in their work. Emphasis will be placed on focusing one’s practice, as well as honing the skills needed to realize projects.Students will study artists who utilize specialized processes, boundaries and strategies to guide and develop their work. The class will be supplemented by field trips and readings.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Inquiry into concepts of order, process, and content as related to human experience. While faculty contact with students is highly individualized, the course involves group critiques and lectures as well as assigned field trips. Prerequisites 10, 12, and 14 or equivalents.This is an advanced studio and lecture class for art majors, to advance their practice through practical research into the varied processes and methods of contemporary painting. Students will expand their skills and develop a dedicated practice through self generated projects and critical engagement. In-class critiques and open discussion will reinforce and challenge the students as a vital part of their technical, conceptual, and professional development. The primary focus of this course is to advance fundamental technical skills in the process of figure drawing, to gain understanding of human anatomy, and to acquire a personal visual language of drawing from life. Through close observation of the human form the student will develop ways of seeing that go beyond regular visual perception. The student will also expand the skills necessary for figure drawing executed in variety of dry and wet media, together with diverse methodologies of traditional and contemporary figure drawing.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Advanced drawing and composition, color and black-and-white, primarily on paper. Art 117 or 118 is required of all art majors.Prerequisites: 12, 13, and 14 or equivalents.Non-traditional projects in printmaking. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.  In this class the student will consider sculptural issues of (and beyond) the object itself, notions of “site specific,” and of whether an object is distinct from its environment or is part of it. We will also question issues of space, placement, installation, context, and public interaction. Students will engage with a variety of sites, both on and off campus, with drawings and written proposals being an integral part of all projects. Lectures and demonstrations will introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Prerequisites: 8, 12, and 14, or equivalents.This is an advanced studio drawing course that compares and contrasts traditional Asian and European pigments, surfaces, and images with contemporary strategies, sources, and methods.  Students will use various traditional hand-made pigments, binders, papers, and drawing materials to explore cultural developments and representations of space, time, and objects. A major course outcome is to create hybrid, diverse content that combines contemporary images and narratives with traditional historic sources. The course provides lectures, demonstrations and studio research methodologies.Six hours of lecture and two hours of discussion per week. Social Practice broadly refers to work produced through various forms of direct engagement with a site, social system or collaborator. Interdisciplinary in nature, such work often takes the form of guerilla interventions, performance, institutional critique, community based public art and political activity, all sharing the premise that art created in the public sphere can help alter public perception and work toward social transformation.Nine hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated with consent of instructor. This course will cover a range of digital media and practices, with a view towards exploring current and future possibilities for photography. Inclusive of multiple approaches to scale, execution, and technique, the course enables students to examine and push the limits of photographic practices. This course will help students advance their digital shooting and Photoshop skills from a beginning to a more advanced level, and will cover the workflow of digital photography: camera usage, scanning, image editing, management, and printing. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated for credit.
This is a studio class designed to introduce artists to the medium of sound. Students will learn the basic skills necessary to work with audio, including microphones, digital recording, editing and processing, speaker and installation design, and circuit-bending. In addition, students will learn about the history of sound art and the ways in which visual art and experimental sound practice inform and expand upon each other.Two hours of lecture and four hours of studio per week. This course offers an introduction to game design and game studies. Game studies has five core elements: the study of games as transmitters of culture, the study of play and interactivity, the study of games as symbolic systems; the study of games as artifacts; and methods for creating games. We will study these core elements through play, play tests, play analysis, and comparative studies. Our reading list includes classic game studies theory and texts which support game design methods. After weekly writing and design exercises, our coursework will culminate in the design and evaluation of an original code-based game with a tangible interface. This immersive studio/seminar class focuses on contemporary models of art making, exposing students to current issues in the art world, and fostering interdisciplinary models of thinking and making. Through field trips to museums, galleries, and alternative art spaces, as well as studio visits with local contemporary artists, students will be able to situate their own projects within the larger sphere of contemporary art. Language and writing skills around artist statements, critical readings, and the critique process will be emphasized to understand how research methods give meaning in a studio practice. Presentation of a final studio project asks students to examine their place within a contemporary art dialogue.*Please note that there are TWO sections of this class, K185/001 AND K185/002Three hours of lecture and three hours of studio critique per week. This course provides students with a foundation for understanding their work within a cross-disciplinary critical context. Through class and individual critique, readings, guest artists, and field trips, students will explore the practical and conceptual components of their own media and practice within a broader discussion of artistic production. In addition to this focused attention on the critique process, the class with address the ongoing needs of supporting one’s work within a community of artists, arts professionals, and arts organizations. Each student will work towards developing the most effective tools for communicating their work to these broader audiences using strategies that are appropriate/effective for their ideas, media, and audience.Prerequisites: Senior level students only.Please see UC Berkeley course catalog for details on this course.Course may be repeated for credit. Hours to be arranged. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program. M.F.A. candidates, special study – M.F.A. Committee members as well as other faculty.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Weekly meetings will provide a forum for the discussion of issues related to assigned readings in the fields of esthetics, theory and art criticism. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.The 301 Pedagogy Seminar is a preparation for GSI’s and is aligned directly with the teaching of Art 8: Introduction to Visual Thinking. Within our pre-semester pedagogy meetings, each graduate student develops a syllabus with emphasis on teaching philosophy, course content, approach to grading, attendance policy, and critique approach and style. Graduate students develop lesson plans and relational formal exercises for each of the course’s three main projects. Instructors receive the Art 8 Pedagogy manual, which contains twenty years of GSI’s syllabi and other helpful information. During our weekly semester pedagogy meetings, the graduate students and I discuss the pertinent issues of their current classroom dynamics. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Consent of instructor.Faculty Log-in*PLEASE NOTE that there are FOUR STUDIO SECTIONS.*
This course will explore how we observe and interpret our visual world. We will examine material from a wide range of sources, focusing on the social, political, and cultural connections, as well as the conceptual base and formal properties that comprise a particular visual/sensory experience. Two ongoing concerns will be the exploration of how art and life intersect, and how our perceptions of what constitute the “high” and “low” in collective culture establish our beliefs about art. The course requires the completion of three projects that stress the visual, intellectual and intuitive aspects of art making.*Please note that there are TWO sections for this course*Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. A study of drawing as a tool for articulating what the eyes, hand, and mind discover and investigate when coordinated. Some sessions will be devoted to drawing the human figure. Art 13 is an entry-level painting course designed to familiarize students with the materials, technical approaches, and processes of painting. Through a series of exercises, assignments, and visual presentations, we will investigate color interaction, contextual relationships, conceptual and compositional strategies, and the relationship between (subject, content, meaning) and process. Twentieth century painting history and theory will be referenced throughout our time together.Consistent attendance is an important factor for this class to be a success. There will be a roster sheet for you to sign each day when you arrive. More than two absences will affect your final grade by one half. Two more absences will drop you another half.This course is the study of the interaction between physical form and space. We will focus on building a strong conceptual foundation while developing the practical studio skills needed to translate your ideas into three dimensions. Shop practices will include hand, machine, and computer-aided fabrications. Field trips and illustrated talks will help acquaint students with the ideas sculptors have explored through history and in contemporary sculptural practices.This class will investigate the potential of ceramics as sculpture.  Both traditional and experimental approaches to ceramics will be explored as a way to develop our technical skills and expand our conceptual approaches.  Field trips and illustrated talks will examine the ideas that have engaged ceramic sculptors in many traditions and the processes that they have used to expand them. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. This course examines and explores various print disciplines in a 15-week survey format. Students study and create traditional forms of fine art printmaking including woodcut, lithography, intaglio, and screenprinting as well as newer approaches which includes transfer and digital printmaking. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications. This course is a prerequisite for upper division print courses.This is a basic foundation class for digital photography with hands-on instruction in the use of digital cameras and online image dissemination. Topics include image capture, composition, image syntax, image analysis, image manipulation, meta-text production, and image sequencing for visual narratives. We also study image dissemination through online networks-social networks, blogs, news, storage, search, and print services.This new course will enable students to think critically about, and engage in practical experiments in, the complex interactions between new media and perceptions and performances of embodiment, agency, citizenship, collective action, individual identity, time and spatiality. We will pay particular attention to the categories of personhood that make up the UC Berkeley American Cultures rubric (race and ethnicity), as well as to gender, nation, and disability. The argument threading through the course will be the ways in which new media both reinforce pre-existing social hierarchies, and yet offer possibilities for the transcendence of those very categories. The new media — and we will leave the precise definition of the new media as something to be argued about over the course of the semester — can be yet another means for dividing and disenfranchising, and can be the conduit of violence and transnational dominance.This course provides students with the technological and conceptual groundwork for advanced courses in video art and filmmaking including the use of digital cameras, sound recording, basic lighting techniques, digital editing, compression, and online dissemination. We will focus on what makes compelling moving images that elicit powerful intellectual and emotional responses. The course also explores the range of techniques and languages of creative video making from traditional story genres to more contemporary experimental forms.
The course consists of weekly lectures, screenings, discussions and a lab section. The lab is a production workshop in which students will produce a series of short exercises and a final project. In this hands-on, project-based class in collaborative innovation, students will experience group creativity and team-based design by using techniques from across the disciplines of business, theatre, design, and art practice. They will leverage problem framing and solving techniques derived from critical thinking, systems thinking, and creative problem solving (popularly known today as “design thinking”). The course is grounded in a brief weekly lecture that sets out the theoretical, historical, and cultural contexts for particular innovation practices, but the majority of the class involves hands-on studio-based learning guided by an interdisciplinary team of teachers leading small group collaborative projects. Students will experience observation, problem-framing, divergent and convergent thinking, iterative solution testing, improvisation, storytelling, devised theatre, and public speaking and presentation activities. By engaging in these activities, the course provides students with the opportunity to develop new mindsets, skill-sets and tool sets for use in collaborative innovation efforts.In this hands-on, project-based class, students will experience group creativity and team-based design by using techniques from across the disciplines of business, theatre, design, and art practice. They will leverage problem framing and solving techniques derived from critical thinking, systems thinking, and creative problem solving (popularly known today as design thinking). The course is grounded in a brief weekly lecture that sets out the theoretical, historical, and cultural contexts for particular innovation practices, but the majority of the class involves hands-on studio-based learning guided by an interdisciplinary team of teachers leading small group collaborative projects. Often artists respond to limitations, whether self-imposed or life-imposed by lack of time, space or budget. But limitations are not always restrictions. Finding creative responses to limitations or boundaries can lead to unsuspected solutions. Many painters use specific limitations that propel their work into unexpected territories through their process, their materials or by finding ways of working that manifest as a result of an environmental or other constraint.During this course, students will achieve the maximum impact within limited means. Through in-class and more in-depth projects, limitation exercises, and technical painting workshops, students will explore strategies that involve process, collaboration and project-based painting using limitation as a source of propulsion in their work. Emphasis will be placed on focusing one’s practice, as well as honing the skills needed to realize projects.Students will study artists who utilize specialized processes, boundaries and strategies to guide and develop their work. The class will be supplemented by field trips and readings.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Inquiry into concepts of order, process, and content as related to human experience. While faculty contact with students is highly individualized, the course involves group critiques and lectures as well as assigned field trips. Prerequisites 10, 12, and 14 or equivalents.This is an advanced studio and lecture class for art majors, to advance their practice through practical research into the varied processes and methods of contemporary painting. Students will expand their skills and develop a dedicated practice through self generated projects and critical engagement. In-class critiques and open discussion will reinforce and challenge the students as a vital part of their technical, conceptual, and professional development. The primary focus of this course is to advance fundamental technical skills in the process of figure drawing, to gain understanding of human anatomy, and to acquire a personal visual language of drawing from life. Through close observation of the human form the student will develop ways of seeing that go beyond regular visual perception. The student will also expand the skills necessary for figure drawing executed in variety of dry and wet media, together with diverse methodologies of traditional and contemporary figure drawing.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Advanced drawing and composition, color and black-and-white, primarily on paper. Art 117 or 118 is required of all art majors.Prerequisites: 12, 13, and 14 or equivalents.This course is designed to explore a range of contemporary art movements around the globe, through a closer look at their central ideas, artists, and artworks, as well as the preconditions and broader social context in which the work is being produced. Topics covered will range from the emergence of localized avant-garde movements in Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America to the implicit globalism of the international biennial circuit. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. The process of Intaglio will be explored in a variety of image producing techniques. Hand drawn, photographic, and digitally manipulated images are combined to produce multiple works of limited edition fine art prints. Image content and development is examined through drawings, studies, slide lectures, group critiques, and direct assistance. Each student is required to attend all class periods and participate in group discussions and critique. It is the responsibility of the student to maintain a portfolio of all works executed during the semester and to turn in all assignments on time. The grade is determined by attendance, completion of projects and participation in critiques. Personal improvement will also be taken into account.Prerequisites: Open to upper division art majors or by consent of instructor.
Credit option: Course may be repeated for credit.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. In the course of making screenprints, you will be encouraged to find an esthetic direction of your own. Your instructor will also help you develop skill in using both stone and metal plates.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.Non-traditional projects in printmaking. Lectures and demonstrations introduce students to techniques and varied applications. What is a crowd? Is it a swarm of bodies on the street, a dancing flash mob, or a set of data points culled from social media? This class investigates how digital cloud technologies cluster us together into formations that could be understood as both pleasurable and dangerous. We will look at how visual artists and social theorists have addressed issues such as self-tracking, fears around immigration, and crowdsourcing. We will also investigate how surveillance, big data, and social media are used by current governments and reframed by insurgent political movements. From the ubiquity of cloud computing to the crowds that have redefined contemporary mass politics, innovations in media platforms, data collection, and digital labor are redefining the ways that collectives are imagined, produced and defined. Crowds and Clouds examines the shared trajectories of technology and sociality, approaching the cloud and crowd through historically grounded, interdisciplinary scholarship in the visual arts, art history, ethnography, literature, and geography.The course has no prerequisites and is open to all undergraduates, but anyone enrolling should be prepared to think hard, read deeply, question preconceived notions, and work.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Students who are experienced in clay may enroll in this course to continue developing their ideas and their technical command of ceramic materials and processes.Prerequisites: 12, 13, 14, 132 or equivalents. In this class the student will consider sculptural issues of (and beyond) the object itself, notions of “site specific,” and of whether an object is distinct from its environment or is part of it. We will also question issues of space, placement, installation, context, and public interaction. Students will engage with a variety of sites, both on and off campus, with drawings and written proposals being an integral part of all projects. Lectures and demonstrations will introduce students to techniques and varied applications.Prerequisites: 8, 12, and 14, or equivalents.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours of open studio per week. Projects are aimed at understanding and inventing ways in which time and change can become key elements in an artwork. Regular screenings of professional tapes will illustrate uses of the mediums and provide a historical context.Prerequisites: 10, 12, 13, 14 or equivalents.This multidisciplinary studio course will investigate the intertwined
histories of art and politics, the powerful relationship that contemporary
art and politics continue to share, and how artists strive to create
social change by responding directly to current affairs and global
political issues.
Class projects and lectures will explore the growing number of artists,
activists, and movements that are working together to change the
political landscape, and how art has historically helped produce
dissent and bring attention to issues and concerns that shape the
global community.
This is an advanced studio drawing course that compares and contrasts traditional Asian and European pigments, surfaces, and images with contemporary strategies, sources, and methods.  Students will use various traditional hand-made pigments, binders, papers, and drawing materials to explore cultural developments and representations of space, time, and objects. A major course outcome is to create hybrid, diverse content that combines contemporary images and narratives with traditional historic sources. The course provides lectures, demonstrations and studio research methodologies.Six hours of lecture and two hours of discussion per week. Social Practice broadly refers to work produced through various forms of direct engagement with a site, social system or collaborator. Interdisciplinary in nature, such work often takes the form of guerilla interventions, performance, institutional critique, community based public art and political activity, all sharing the premise that art created in the public sphere can help alter public perception and work toward social transformation.Nine hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated with consent of instructor. This course will cover a range of digital media and practices, with a view towards exploring current and future possibilities for photography. Inclusive of multiple approaches to scale, execution, and technique, the course enables students to examine and push the limits of photographic practices. This course will help students advance their digital shooting and Photoshop skills from a beginning to a more advanced level, and will cover the workflow of digital photography: camera usage, scanning, image editing, management, and printing. Six hours of lecture and three hours of studio per week. Course may be repeated for credit.
This is a studio class designed to introduce artists to the medium of sound. Students will learn the basic skills necessary to work with audio, including microphones, digital recording, editing and processing, speaker and installation design, and circuit-bending. In addition, students will learn about the history of sound art and the ways in which visual art and experimental sound practice inform and expand upon each other.Two hours of lecture and four hours of studio per week. This course offers an introduction to game design and game studies. Game studies has five core elements: the study of games as transmitters of culture, the study of play and interactivity, the study of games as symbolic systems; the study of games as artifacts; and methods for creating games. We will study these core elements through play, play tests, play analysis, and comparative studies. Our reading list includes classic game studies theory and texts which support game design methods. After weekly writing and design exercises, our coursework will culminate in the design and evaluation of an original code-based game with a tangible interface. Course Format: Two hours of lecture and seven hours of studio per week.
Description: This class provides a basic foundation for digital photography with hands-on instruction in the use of digital cameras and online image dissemination. Topics include image capture, composition, image syntax, image analysis, image manipulation, metatext production, and image sequencing for visual narratives. We also study image dissemination through online networks including social networks, blogs, news, storage, search, and print services. Rather than limiting the discussion of photography to the production of the photographic image itself, we explore in written assignments how the reception of images can change based on context, usage, and network dynamics. While we rely on required DSLR digital cameras to produce images for weekly photographic assignments, we also experiment with alternate digital image generation techniques from telescopes to microscopes. All coursework will be posted and discussed online as well as in weekly lectures, workshops, and critiques. Course readings cover the history of photography, the theory of photographic reproduction and the theory of networked and memetic disseminationThis immersive studio/seminar class focuses on contemporary models of art making, exposing students to current issues in the art world, and fostering interdisciplinary models of thinking and making. Through field trips to museums, galleries, and alternative art spaces, as well as studio visits with local contemporary artists, students will be able to situate their own projects within the larger sphere of contemporary art. Language and writing skills around artist statements, critical readings, and the critique process will be emphasized to understand how research methods give meaning in a studio practice. Presentation of a final studio project asks students to examine their place within a contemporary art dialogue.*Please note that there are TWO sections of this class, K185/001 AND K185/002Three hours of lecture and three hours of studio critique per week. This course provides students with a foundation for understanding their work within a cross-disciplinary critical context. Through class and individual critique, readings, guest artists, and field trips, students will explore the practical and conceptual components of their own media and practice within a broader discussion of artistic production. In addition to this focused attention on the critique process, the class with address the ongoing needs of supporting one’s work within a community of artists, arts professionals, and arts organizations. Each student will work towards developing the most effective tools for communicating their work to these broader audiences using strategies that are appropriate/effective for their ideas, media, and audience.Prerequisites: Senior level students only.Please see UC Berkeley course catalog for details on this course.Course may be repeated for credit. Hours to be arranged. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Admission to the M.F.A. program. M.F.A. candidates, special study – M.F.A. Committee members as well as other faculty.Course may be repeated for credit. Six hours of instructional studio and three hours open studio per week. Weekly meetings will provide a forum for the discussion of issues related to assigned readings in the fields of esthetics, theory and art criticism. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor.The 301 Pedagogy Seminar is a preparation for GSI’s and is aligned directly with the teaching of Art 8: Introduction to Visual Thinking. Within our pre-semester pedagogy meetings, each graduate student develops a syllabus with emphasis on teaching philosophy, course content, approach to grading, attendance policy, and critique approach and style. Graduate students develop lesson plans and relational formal exercises for each of the course’s three main projects. Instructors receive the Art 8 Pedagogy manual, which contains twenty years of GSI’s syllabi and other helpful information. During our weekly semester pedagogy meetings, the graduate students and I discuss the pertinent issues of their current classroom dynamics. ALL GRADUATE COURSES MUST BE TAKEN FOR A LETTER GRADE.Prerequisites
Consent of instructor.Faculty Log-inThe UC and Richmond Global Campus (formerly the Richmond Field Station) provides over 10,000 square feet of studio space in a beautiful San Francisco Bay-side location. Available for 24-hour use, the UC and Richmond Global Campus  (RGC) graduate studios share a kitchen, a meeting room, open construction space, wireless internet access, a digital video editing station, digital printers, and flexible exhibition space.Although there is a bus from campus to the UC and Richmond Global Campus, it does not run after 6pm or on weekends and the public transportation system does not provide service to the site at this time. Students need to have their own transportation to have adequate access to the studios.Please note: we do not give tours of the MFA studios.Two graduate studios are maintained in Wurster Hall on the UC Berkeley main campus. Both studios are wheelchair-accessible.Faculty Log-inFaculty Log-inFaculty Log-inFaculty Log-inFaculty Log-inFaculty Log-inFaculty Log-inThe Worth Ryder Art Gallery Internship program is an opportunity to learn how art exhibitions are put together, to gain experience in the day-to-day functioning of an art gallery from the inside, and to work with professional curators and artists.  The internship is a two-credit pass/fail course. Attendance and punctuality are essential to passing. Internships are open to ALL UC Berkeley Students, NOT limited to Art Practice majors or upper division students. The application process is competitive.The Application for the Fall 2017 Program is now live.Students are asked to take the internship program for two credits and play two roles: Attendant/Host and Preparator/Publicity. Students should expect to commit five hours per week to the program.Attendant/HostEach student who signs up for the program is required to be present to attend the gallery for one 2.5 hour shift per week during the semester OR help host receptions and artist talks. Attendant shifts are scheduled during gallery hours, 12 – 5pm, Monday – Thursday, while Host shifts are odd hours.Preparator/PublicityAdditionally, each intern takes on two specialized positions. These positions are scheduled flexibly, but do require students to be present for hours during installation periods and at meetings with the Director.As a Preparator you will be installing exhibitions for approximately 4-hour shifts before each of five exhibitions. You will be hanging work, painting, organizing, making gallery materials, assisting professional and student artists, and will gain valuable hands-on experience. You will be trained in the use of basic tools used to install exhibitions. No experience required.As a Publicity Interns you will help the Director prepare PR materials, publicize events, document exhibitions, enter exhibition descriptions into online arts calendars, contact local arts media, prepare content for our website and social media, and make things BIG.***The Application for the Fall 2017 Program is now live.QUESTIONS? Please write to Program Director Farley Gwazda: gwazda@berkeley.eduFaculty Log-inThe Department of Art Practice at UC Berkeley offers the intense focus of a professional art school within the context of a world-renowned public research university. Students are challenged to pursue creative research across disciplines. We offer both the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree and the Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree.Faculty Log-inWhen the University of California was founded in 1869, courses in painting, sculpture, and drawing were part of the curricula of the Architecture Department, Drawing and Decorative Arts Department, the Department of Domestic Art, and the Department of Drawing and Mapping. It was not until the early 20th-century that the Department of Art Practice came into being.In 1915, Assistant Professor of Decorative Design in the Department of Domestic Art, Eugene Neuhaus, lectured on art at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition. His lectures at the Exposition, and during the years following, generated so much statewide interest in contemporary fine art that by 1923 the Department of Art Practice was established on the Berkeley campus under the Chairmanship of Professor Eugene Neuhaus. In the 1930’s and 1940’s, Oliver Washburn, Stephen Pepper and Worth Ryder also served as department Chairs.During the Department of Art Practice’s 1930 and 1931 summer sessions, Hans Hoffmann electrified students and the Bay Area community with his concepts on modern art. Subsequently, he donated 45 of his paintings to UC Berkeley. These paintings became the basis for the Berkeley Art Museum’s permanent Hans Hoffmann collection. Internationally recognized artist, Chiura Obata, was a member of the Art Practice faculty from 1932-1954. In addition to Hoffmann and Obata, the department’s faculty has included nationally and internationally acclaimed artists such as Joan Brown, Jay deFeo, David Hockney, Sylvia Lark, and Peter Voulkos. More recent distinguished artists on our faculty include Visiting Lecturers Richard Diebenkorn, Enrique Chagoya, Vincent Fecteau, Monica Majoli, Helen Mirra, Kota Ezawa, and Marianne Weems.The department’s alumni have used their UC Berkeley training in the visual fine arts as a preparation for careers in advertising, fashion design, gallery entrepreneurship, film editing, film production, museum and gallery curating, graphics, publishing, and theater/film set design and construction. Our alumni have gone on to teach at the Academy of Art College, Alfred University, Bennington College, California College of Arts and Crafts, California State University, Carnegie-Mellon University, Chicago Art Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Memphis State University, Notre Dame University, Parsons School of Design, Princeton University, Rutgers University, San Francisco Art Institute, San Francisco School of Art, San Francisco State University, Stanford University, University of California, University of Minnesota, and Yale University.Faculty Log-inFor a comprehensive Q&A on our program, please see our Q&A page.
To begin your application process, please see the Graduate Division website.Our MFA ProgramThe two-year Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program supports 12 graduate students per year, and strives to graduate working artists who will continue to demonstrate significant artistic, critical and cultural impacts across a wide array of disciplines. Incoming MFA students are expected to be already deeply engaged in their creative practice and possess technical proficiency in their chosen media. Graduate coursework and independent study are designed to help students develop a critical understanding of their creative work in the multiple contexts of specific localities and global contemporary art. Our graduate students are encouraged to take university-wide and cross-disciplinary courses linked to their research interests, studying and collaborating with faculty and graduate students in areas as diverse as Geography, Environmental Sciences, Classics, Art History, Disability Studies, Philosophy, Cognitive Science, Interactive Design, Rhetoric, Film Studies, and Comparative Literature.The Program seeks to help students develop a keen sense of their audience and to consider how they will reach, or generate, that audience for their work. Art Practice faculty will help to facilitate the exposure of graduate student work to a broader public, whether in museums, galleries, public places, or through other forms of engagement and dissemination.Peer-to-peer discussion and critique form the heart of Berkeley’s MFA Program. Students respond to their classmates’ work, and learn to think, speak and write critically about art’s functions and possibilities.  A Visiting Artist Lecture Series, along with studio visits, offer graduate students the chance to connect with internationally-known artists. Students also will have the opportunity to teach in the second year, mentored and closely supported by a faculty member.  Exhibitions in the first and second year of study require students to maintain a rigorous pace of creative research and establish a professional art practice. The final thesis exhibition, completed after the second year of study, is held at the Berkeley Art Museum.Why an MFA from Berkeley?INNOVATIONArt Practice is committed to artistic innovation and intellectual rigor. We emphasize critical thinking and strongly encourage work that rethinks context, material form, and conceptual approach. The program aims to broaden the productive, conceptual, and critical faculties of students in their pursuit of careers as professional artists.FACULTYThe department’s faculty consists of established and emerging artists. All students work closely with individual faculty members through a system of independent study and programmatic coursework. Every student is guided through the program by a faculty mentor, who serves as that student’s artistic and academic advisor.ACADEMIC EXCELLENCEThe program emphasizes making within a highly rigorous conceptual and critical approach, and is designed to prepare students for a professional exhibiting career and for teaching at the college level. The curriculum emphasizes the richness of UC Berkeley’s broader research community, and close working relationships with faculty. Opportunities exist for assisted and faculty-accompanied travel abroad.INTERDISCIPLINARITYThe MFA Program promotes interdisciplinarity, with a facility to pursue and realize ideas through the most appropriate media. Students test ideas and work in a wide range of media and disciplines, which include but are not limited to broadly defined areas of painting, drawing, sculpture, photography, video, printmaking, digital and new media, performance, and social practice. MFA students have enrolled in courses offered in Physics, Asian Studies, Rhetoric, Film and Media, Peace and Conflict Studies, Art History, Anthropology, Music, Environmental Science, Botany, Mathematics, Middle-Eastern Studies, Religion, Classics, English, Architecture, Philosophy, Engineering, and Theatre, Dance and Performance Studies.TEACHINGThe MFA Program offers unique teaching opportunities. In their second year, MFA students are invited to teach their own section of our undergraduate foundation course, Art 8: “Introduction to Visual Thinking.” Opportunities exist to teach this course again, and/or other courses during summer sessions.PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENTWe offer our MFA students professional development support, including privileged applicant status to a number of studio residency programs and grant programs. In consultation with a faculty advisor, each student will select and work closely with a thesis committee consisting of departmental and external members.STUDIO SPACEWe offer our students semi-independent studio facilities, with each student matched to a studio that best suits their work. Ten studios are located off-campus, at the Richmond Field Station; two studios are located on-campus in Wurster Hall.EXHIBITION SPACESIn addition to exhibiting in the Art Practice department’s Worth Ryder Art Gallery, MFA students are assisted in displaying their work in an array of regional venues. The second-year MFA Show is held at the newly-reopened Berkeley Art Museum, and students work closely with museum curators and staff to select and install their work.**We have a very extensive Q&A regarding our MFA program. You can find that page here.**Faculty Log-inThe UC Berkeley Department of Art Practice offers an undergraduate program in studio art which provides a firm grounding in basic techniques and principles while encouraging guided experimentation. Our curriculum is designed to teach students to think visually and to help students develop a creative intelligence through the disciplined practice of a visual art. We provide technical and conceptual training in most traditional and new media: painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture (wood, metal, ceramic, and mixed media), photography, installation, performance art, video, animation, sound, and in the emerging fields of programming, interactivity, and game design. Art Majors are expected to round out the required studio courses with Art History and Theory classes.Art Practice seeks to graduate students who demonstrate an original vision in their approach to practice, form, and content and who have the potential for significant artistic and cultural impact. Successful Art Practice graduates understand the professional art world and are articulate about their work. They are deeply engaged with their art forms, rigorously committed to their crafts, and capable of transcending boundaries of mind, media or method through creative research. Students graduating with a major in art pursue careers as professional artists and teachers or in arts-related activities with museums, galleries, arts management, publishing, and artists’ organizations.While the undergraduate major is made up largely of studio courses, it also requires at least three courses in art history. Our students are required to be broadly familiar with the aesthetic strategies that artists have devised to understand and invent their worlds, not just in the 20th and 21st centuries, but throughout the millenia of human culture. Field trips to area museums, galleries, and artists’ studios provide an important on-site learning tool, one which emphasizes the pedagogical primacy of direct contact with works of art.Small studio classes with frequent critiques are designed to foster a supportive community, productive debate, and collaborative thinking. Students are encouraged to be both open-minded and tough-minded, to look closely, think critically, and challenge assumptions. Most upper-division studio courses involve an exhibition requirement when students are asked to consider questions of audience, context, site, and timing. Several gallery spaces, among them the Worth Ryder Art Gallery, offer exhibition venues. The department also maintains web space for on-line exhibitions and video streaming. 1. Have an overall GPA of 3.32. Complete the R&C requirements3. Complete 2 required studio classes: Art 8 & Art 124. Submit a portfolio of 12 images (include work from ALL studio classes)5. One letter of recommendation from an art faculty, art lecturer, or art GSI. Lower Division:1. REQUIRED: ART 82. REQUIRED: ART 123. YOU MUST CHOOSE TWO STUDIO CLASSES FROM THE FOLLOWING LIST:ART 13 – The Language of PaintingART 14 – The Language of Sculpture (Ceramic or Mixed Media)ART 16 – The Language of PrintmakingART 21 – Digital PhotographyART 23AC – Foundations of American Cyber-CultureART 26 – The Moving ImageANDONE Art History course, student’s choice Upper Division:1. REQUIRED: Art 119 – Global Perspectives in Contemporary Art2. REQUIRED: ART 185 – Senior Project, Professional Practices** PLEASE NOTE that Art 117 and 118 are NO LONGER REQUIRED and are now electives**3. YOU MUST CHOOSE SIX STUDIO CLASSES FROM THE FOLLOWING LIST:ART 102 – Advanced PaintingART 117 – Drawing and CompositionArt 118 – Figure DrawingART 120, 122, 123, 124 – Advanced Printmaking (Lithography, Etching, Silkscreen)ART 132, 137 – Advanced Ceramic SculptureART 138 – InstallationART 141, 142 – New GenresART 160 – Special TopicsART 162 – Issues in Cultural DisplayART 164 – Art & MeditationART 165 – Art, Medicine and DisabilityART 171 – Beginning Digital VideoART 173 – Sound ArtART 174 – Advanced Digital VideoART 175 – Advanced Computer GraphicsART 178 – Game Design MethodsART C179, ART 179 – Mobile City Chronicles**YOU MAY, IF DESIRED, SUBSTITUTE 2 STUDIO CLASSES IN THESE DEPARTMENTS:FILM 180, 181, 185, or 186THEATER, DANCE, AND PERFORMANCE STUDIES 173, 174, or 175CENTER FOR NEW MEDIA 190VISUAL STUDIES (C.E.D.) VA 180A or B, 181, 185, C185A, 187A or B Art HistoryTAKE TWO UPPER DIVISION ART HISTORY CLASSESOne MUST be Art 119 – Global Perspectives in Contemporary ArtOne is to be taken from this list:  History of Art 100, 186A, B, or C LOWER DIVISION:4 lower division studio classes (same as the major), however, no lower division Art History class is needed.UPPER DIVISON:4 upper division studio classes (same as the major), plus 1 upper division Art History class (MUST be on a 20th century topic) Faculty Log-inUC Berkeley MFA Program InformationApplications will be accepted starting September 15th, 2017. The application/portfolio period will close AT MIDNIGHT on December 15th 2017. Letters of recommendation are also due by MIDNIGHT December 15th, 2017.Final decisions will be made late February/early March. You WILL be notified of you admission status either by letter or phone call.***Please read this entire page before you call, thank you.*** Here is the link to UC Berkeley’s Graduate Division. You will find all the requirement and application information you need there, and you will also find the link to the 3rd party site where you will upload your images (Slideroom.com). Frequently asked questionsHow many people apply to your program? How many do you accept?175-200 applicants per year. We admit 6 students per year. The UC application asks for a personal statement and a statement of purpose. Where does my artist’s statement go? Can I combine it? If so, with which document?The UC graduate division application has a separate entry box for EACH statement;  the UC graduate division application explains in detail what is meant by the “Personal statement,” and Statement of Purpose.” Please note carefully the difference between them. In your “Artists’ Statement we ask that you discuss your understanding of your process, you discuss the ideas you are working with, and you identify the critical and historical conversation/s you hope to engage in with and through your work. What is your selection process?We begin by viewing portfolios, anonymously. The second round includes a careful examination of your statements, transcripts, and letters of recommendation. Final rounds involve a phone interview with selected finalists. Can you describe your MFA program?Incoming MFA students are already deeply engaged in their creative practice and possess technical proficiency in their chosen media. Graduate coursework and independent study are designed to help students develop a critical understanding of their creative work in the multiple contexts of specific localities and global contemporary art. Students are encouraged to take university-wide and cross-disciplinary courses linked to their research interests, studying and collaborating with faculty and graduate students in areas as diverse as Geography, Environmental Sciences, Classics, Art History, Disability Studies, Philosophy, Cognitive Science, Interactive Design, Rhetoric, Film Studies, and Comparative Literature.Peer-to-peer discussion and critique form the heart of Berkeley’s MFA Program. Students respond to their classmates’ work, and learn to think, speak and write critically about art’s functions and possibilities.  A Visiting Artist Lecture Series, along with studio visits, offer graduate students the chance to connect with internationally-known artists. Students also have the opportunity to teach in the second year, mentored and closely supported by a faculty member.  Exhibitions in the first and second year of study require students to maintain a rigorous pace of creative research and establish a professional art practice. The final thesis exhibition, completed after the second year of study, is held at the Berkeley Art Museum. Who pays my tuition?For California residents, we pay your tuition costs for both years, HOWEVER, if you’re from out of state, Art Practice can only pay your in-state-tuition, and you will have to pay the difference of out-of-state tuition. During this first year you may apply for California state residency, so that in your second year, you will be a California resident and Art Practice covers 100%. We strongly encourage grads to apply for  fellowships and grants available locally and from within UC. Here is where you can learn more: http://grad.berkeley.edu/financial/fellowships/If you work as a Graduate Student Instructor (GSI) teaching an Art Practice undergraduate class,, you are paid for that as well.  If you have more questions regarding costs, please contact: Dee Levister, dplev@berkeley.edu. Do you offer tours of the MFA studios?Only after students are admitted to our program do we tour the studios. However there are usually open studio events during the year. Please join our Facebook feed to be apprised of upcoming open studio dates. https://www.facebook.com/UCBArtPractice/ Where are the MFA studios?They are located at the Berkeley Global Campus (formerly Richmond Field Station), which is about 20 minutes away from campus by car or BART Transit to the BGC is available from campus, but is not frequent, so cars or bikes are best for transportation to the studios. Do you accept slides, or is Slideroom the only way I can send you my portfolio?Slideroom is the only way to submit a portfolio. How many images should I submit?The maximum image count is 20, plus up to five minutes of video. Is it okay if my letters of recommendation or transcripts miss the deadline?Yes. We realize that if you decide at the last minute to apply, that your letters or transcripts might arrive late. Should I contact you if I have trouble with my application or uploading my portfolio?No. Contact Graduate Division if you have trouble with your application, and Slideroom.com if you have trouble uploading your portfolio. What should I include in my portfolio?We are interested to see your recent work, particularly work made within the last 3 years.  Include what you consider to be your strongest and most developed projects. We encourage you to take advantage of the ‘description’ field in Slideroom’s interface to provide details for projects which may not be self-evident in photos. What if I work collaboratively?In cases where you submit collaboratively-made projects, we are interested to know what the role of each collaborator is, to the extent that it is possible to clarify them. If you AND your collaborator are both applying to the program, we do expect you to submit individually made work as part of your portfolio. Can I send you my application via snailmail?No, we no longer accept hard copy applications. All applications are submitted through the Graduate Division website.Faculty Log-in