Department of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeCONTENTS1. Funding information for prospective graduate students2. Funding For Archaeology Graduate Students A. Sources of Funding  B. Funding Deadlines for 2018/193. Funding For Egyptology Students4. Funding For Assyriology Students5. Other Financial SupportThe University Graduate Admissions provides information about the Fees and Costs involved in Graduate study as well as information on Funding Your Studies.The funding you will be eligible to apply for will be dependent on your fee status and your chosen course of study, with some funding only available for Home and EU students and other awards aimed at Oversees students. Visit the Student Registry website to find out more about Your Fee Status.The University holds three main funding rounds for all graduate applicants with deadlines in October, December and January for admittance the following academic year.All prospective students who have applied for 2017-18 entry and have a conditional offer of acceptance will automatically be considered for the award of these bursaries as appropriate to their chosen field of study. This bursary is for the best qualified new UK/EU/Overseas entrant to St Edmund's College who intends to take the MPhil in Archaeological Science and specialise in any aspect of Geoarchaeology. It is jointly funded by the McBurney Laboratory for Geoarchaeology and St Edmund's College, Cambridge with a £5000 bursary award.A total of 5 bursary awards of £2000 each are available across the range of course options for the MPhil in Archaeology and t bursary awards in Biological Anthropology.**Note: Should the best qualified new UK/EU/Overseas entrant be in receipt of another offer for a full award or scholarship then the bursary will be awarded to another suitable applicant. The Department of Archaeology participates in the AHRC Doctoral Training Programme and the Cambridge Earth Systems Science NERC Doctoral Training Programme.The University of Cambridge is pleased to announce that it has been awarded funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) under a Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) for 40 doctoral studentships per year. Studentships will be available in all arts and humanities subject areas offered throughout the university. An allocation of these studentships wil be made available to students within the Division of Archaeology.Applications for AHRC awards are made as part of the Graduate Admissions online GRADSAF application process. Students should ensure they include a well structured research proposal and are encouraged to formulate this in communication with a potential supervisor in the Department of Archaeology. You can view the research interests and current research projects of the academic staff in the Department of Archaeology through the Directory.This year the Department of Archaeology & Anthropology will be again participating in the Earth Systems Science NERC DTP.The Department is inviting PhD applications from high caliber applicants interested in pursuing topics in Archaeology and Biological Anthropology in the either the Biology or Climate Themes. You can find out more about NERC DTP studentships here: http://essdtp.esc.cam.ac.uk/ Please contact us to discuss your interest in applying.The Department of Archaeology & Anthropology is pleased to participate in a new ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership at the University of Cambridge. A range of studentships are available across the social sciences at Cambridge; if you are interested in how society works and how it can handle global challenges, a DTP studentship will give you a world-class training programme, with access to leading international scholars both at Cambridge and other DTPs, and a wide community of fellow social scientists.You can find out more about ESRC DTP studentships here: http://esrc-dtc.cshss.cam.ac.uk/esrc-dtp Please contact us to discuss your interest in applying.The Association of British and Turkish Academics runs a competition open to PhD students at UK Universities (and those in the first year after the PhD) *in all subject areas*. http://abtanet.org.uk/Awards/ Students in Egyptology are eligible for the same funding as students in Archaeology (see above). In addition:Christ's College is offering a Lady Wallis Budge Studentship for a PhD student in Egyptology at the Department of Archaeology at the University of Cambridge from October 2015. The total value of the Studentship will be a contribution towards fees and maintenance of up to £19,892 p.a. (equalling full costs for UK and EU students, but overseas applicants can also apply for the same amount and will receive full consideration) for one year in the first instance, with the possibility of renewal for a further two years subject to satisfactory progress.Candidates need to apply for and be accepted in the Egyptology PhD programme at the Department of Archaeology and Anthropology at the University of Cambridge to be eligible for the Studentship. Further information on the PhD programme and application procedure can be found here. The successful candidate must become a member of Christ's College.To be considered for the Studentship, the PhD application must have been submitted electronically through the online application system. The successful candidate will be notified in March.Questions regarding the Studentship may be directed to Dr Rune Nyord, Christ's College, St Andrew's Street, Cambridge CB2 3BU, United Kingdom (rn321@cam.ac.uk).The Thomas Mulvey Egyptology Fund is devoted to the encouragement of research in Egyptology.Studentship: preference is given to candidates who are undertaking research in Egyptology for the PhD degree in Cambridge, or who are applying to do this. The Award will be for up to £4000; it will be held for one year, but a successful candidate may reapply in subsequent years.Grants: preference is given to current Cambridge graduate students in Egyptology; UTOs, Postdoctoral Fellows and scholars affiliated with the University of Cambridge undertaking research in Egyptology may also apply. Grant applications should not normally exceed £2000; the majority of grants awarded are much smaller.Applications must be sent to the Registrary, Faculty of Human, Social, and Political Science, The Mond Building, Free School Lane, Cambridge, CB2 3RF (fjf24@cam.ac.uk). The application form, available from the Registrary, must be returned no later than 31 May 2015.Letters of reference (two for the Studentship, one for grants) should be sent directly to the Assistant Registrary by referees, to arrive no later than 31 May. Email is acceptable.If there is a suitable candidate, the Thomas Mulvey Student will be elected not later than 31 July 2015. Grants from the Fund will be made by the same date. The value of individual awards, including both grants and the Studentship, will be decided by the Management Committee after reviewing all applications.Students in Assyriology are eligible for the same funding as students in Archaeology (see above). In addition, see the Mesopotamian Funding page.Several colleges offer research scholarships to home and overseas students. The following colleges have advertised substantial or fully funded scholarships: Corpus Christi, Emmanuel, Jesus (especially for Australian and for Chinese citizens), King's, Magdalene, Murray Edwards, Newnham, Pembroke, Peterhouse, Queens', St. Catharine's (for Malaysian citizens), St. John's (including special scholarships for Graduates of the University of Rome (Aldobrandini), archaeologists (Paskin) and South African citizens (Bradlow)), Sidney Sussex, Trinity, Trinity Hall and Wolfson. Members of staff in the department of archaeology will happily give advice.All students undertaking a PhD with an element of fieldwork are eligible to apply to the Department for support with the costs of fieldwork. Information for students within the Department of Archaeology can be found here. Students who are funded by the AHRC may be able to apply for additional fieldwork funding through this scheme and should consult the AHRC pages here.The Wiener - Anspach Foundation awards research grants to Cambridge PhD students who wish to spend up to one year at the Université libre de Bruxelles as part of their PhD studies. These non-renewable grants are open to students from all fields. Please note they are not available for the first year of study. More information is available on the Wiener - Anspach Foundation website. Cambridge Funding SearchCurrent and prospective graduate students can use the Cambridge Funding Search to locate funding within the University.http://www.student-funding.cam.ac.uk/ The European Funding Guide is the largest online-platform in the EU for finding financial aid. The platform contains over 12,000 scholarships, grants and awards across the whole EU worth more than 27 billion Euros per year. Over 4,000 of these are specifically targeted at UK students.http://www.european-funding-guide.eu/    
© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThis course provides training in research and analytical skills, a critical appreciation of archaeology, the human past, and its place in the modern world, as well as expertise in a chosen, specialist region or area. Students can specialise in any one of the following options:Within this broad structure, the Department offers students great flexibility in combining modules; students may explore (for example), a region and a method, or choose a heritage emphasis. Students take three modules in a combination specific to their chosen option. Students choosing Archaeology of the Americas, Archaeology of Egypt, European Archaeology, Medieval Archaeology, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Palaeolithic and Mesolithic Archaeology, or South Asian Archaeology usually takeThe Archaeological Heritage and Museums option and the Archaeological Science option require different combinations; see the web page for each course option for further information.All MPhil students take a Research Skills Module and write a dissertation.Students unsure of their interests may apply at first for the MPhil in Archaeology (course option not initially specified), but will be expected to specify one of the option choices above by the second week of their first term. Please contact the MPhil Coordinator (through the Graduate Secretary) for further advice on option choices in advance of application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Prof Charles French and Dr Tamsin O'ConnellDr Preston Miracle, Prof. Martin Jones,  and other staff. This MPhil allows students to familiarise themselves with the basic theories and approaches within archaeological science, particularly within the fields of geoarchaeology, zooarchaeology, archaeobotany, genetics and isotopic and molecular archaeology. You are expected to learn about standard analytical techniques used in archaeological science and environmental archaeology applications, and gain hands-on experience of at least two laboratory techniques that will form the basis of a specialisation and research. With the dissertation you are expected to complete an intensive, self-motivated study of an archaeological science problem, with a high quality of research organisation and presentation. The course discusses major methods and themes in:Some cross-cutting themes that link the different analytical approaches include the exploitation of landscapes, agricultural beginnings and intensification, food resources, and the relationships of these to human settlement and landscape change. This course option is appropriate for both students with background in archaeological science and students new to the subject. The structure of this MPhil follows the general structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Archaeological Science. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff; some are based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork or studies of museum collections, others on analysis of existing databases or published literature. Some recent MPhil dissertations and project topics in Archaeological Science include:This MPhil option also has a number of field trips to archaeological sites and landscapes in Cambridgeshire and sometimes offers the possibility of field trips to sites further afield such as Stonehenge and Avebury. For further information, contact Prof Charles French, co-ordinator for this option, or Prof Marie Louise Sorensen, overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Division of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThis course provides training in research and analytical skills, a critical appreciation of archaeology, the human past, and its place in the modern world, as well as expertise in a chosen, specialist region or area. Students can specialise in any one of the following options:Within this broad structure, the Department offers students great flexibility in combining modules; students may explore (for example), a region and a method, or choose a heritage emphasis. Students take three modules in a combination specific to their chosen option. Students choosing Archaeology of the Americas, Archaeology of Egypt, European Archaeology, Medieval Archaeology, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Palaeolithic and Mesolithic Archaeology, or South Asian Archaeology usually takeThe Archaeological Heritage and Museums option and the Archaeological Science option require different combinations; see the web page for each course option for further information.All MPhil students take a Research Skills Module and write a dissertation.Students unsure of their interests may apply at first for the MPhil in Archaeology (course option not initially specified), but will be expected to specify one of the option choices above by the second week of their first term. Please contact the MPhil Coordinator (through the Graduate Secretary) for further advice on option choices in advance of application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgePlease see also the MPhil in Egyptology for additional Egyptology coursesDr Kate SpenceDr Hratch Papazian This MPhil teaches the historical archaeology of ancient Egypt. The course alternates between years. In 20012–13 the focus will be on the New Kingdom and later periods of Egyptian history (c. 1550 BC–330 BC) while in 2013–14 we will cover the processes of state formation to the beginning of the New Kingdom (c. 3500 BC–1550 BC). Within this chronological framework a series of interlinking topics will be treated including:A strong emphasis will be placed on integrating textual, archaeological and artistic records throughout the course. This course option is appropriate both for students new to the subject of Egyptian Archaeology and for students with a background in Egyptology wishing to develop their knowledge of archaeological theory and practice. The structure of this MPhil follows the general structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take: In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Egyptian archaeology. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff; most will be based on published literature but some may be based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork, studies of museum collections, or analysis of existing databases. Some recent MPhil dissertations topics in Egyptian Archaeology include:This MPhil option sometimes offers the possibility of practical work with the large Egyptology collections in the Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology and the Fitzwilliam Museum. For further information contact Dr Kate Spence, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Prof Marie Louise SørensenDr Gilly Carr, Dr Dacia Viejo Rose, Dr Lila Janik, Dr Chris Wingfield, Dr Jody Joy This MPhil teaches Heritage Studies and Museums, covering the core issues and approaches within the field of heritage generally (including tangible and tangible, movable and immovable heritage) and museums specifically. It traces the development of heritage as a public enterprise whether in the form of museums or heritage organisations and legislation, and focuses on the ways this field has expanded and the core issues that now defines it. Some of the key themes include:The cross-cutting concerns are to develop insight into the historical development of the fields and to understand how these are continuously developing practices and concerns responding to social needs as well as established practices and power relations. This course option is appropriate both for students of archaeology who want to specialise in heritage and museums and to students coming from other disciplines wanting to enter these fields of studies. The general structure of this MPhil follows that of the structure of the MPhil in Archaeology but would normally expect the students to take the three specialised heritage and museums papers:All three modules are lecture based, but also include seminars, various small-group discussions, and fieldtrips.This combination of papers allows students to develop specialised in-depth knowledge of the connecting fields of heritage and museums, applying what they learn in seminars and museums practicals.In addition, students take the Research Skills module (G01) and write a 15,000 words dissertation on a topic relating to heritage or museums. This offers the students the opportunity to conduct independent original research on a topic selected by them under guidance of the academic staff. The dissertation may be based on original fieldwork (surveys, observations, archival) or library based. Some recent MPhil dissertations and topics in Archaeological Heritage and Museums include:The students will all be members of the Heritage Research Group, and be actively involved (if they wish) in planning its activities including the annual Cambridge Heritage Seminar. For further information, contact Prof M.L.S. Sørensen, co-ordinator for this MPhil option and overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Department of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgePlease see also the MPhil in Assyriology for additional courses Co-ordinator: Dr Augusta McMahon The CourseThis MPhil course covers the archaeology of the prehistoric and historical periods of Mesopotamia, from c 6000 BC to the Persian Period. The course is divided chronologically, with each half taught in alternate years: The ThemesThemes addressed include:This course option is appropriate for students with some background in Mesopotamian archaeology and for students new to the subject. Students wishing to combine study of the ancient languages with the archaeology and culture of Mesopotamia should apply for the MPhil in Assyriology. The StructureThe structure of this MPhil follows the structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Mesopotamian Archaeology. The dissertation is an independent in-depth research project; it may be based on fieldwork or museum collections, or on analysis of existing literature. For further information, contact Dr Augusta McMahon, co-ordinator for this option, or Prof Marie Louise Sorensen, overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Department of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The Cambridge MPhil in Assyriology is unique in the UK in our combination of the ancient languages, history, archaeology and culture of Mesopotamia. MPhil Assyriology students will join a lively community of Near Eastern scholars, including students on the MPhil in Mesopotamian Archaeology, PhD students, McDonald Institute post-doctoral scholars, and permanent members of teaching and research staff.The Assyriology MPhil is designed to be flexible in response to the needs of students with different academic backgrounds and interests. We aim to provide the student with a good knowledge of one or both of the principal languages of ancient Mesopotamia (Akkadian and Sumerian), combined with a detailed study of aspects of Mesopotamian archaeology and culture, from the later prehistoric periods (from 6000 BC) through the earliest literate and urban societies of the Near East to the Assyrian and Babylonian empires.The Assyriology MPhil may act as a self-contained course providing a good general introduction to Mesopotamia, or it may be a conversion course for those who plan to use Mesopotamian textual sources to undertake doctoral research. It is appropriate both for students with no previous knowledge of Mesopotamian languages or archaeology and for students with some knowledge of Mesopotamia and its languages who wish to build further upon this. Language study is an essential component of the Assyriology MPhil; applicants who wish to study ancient Mesopotamia without the language should choose the MPhil in Archaeology, Mesopotamian archaeology option.This is a full-time, 11-month course (October – August), combining three taught modules with an independent research dissertation of 15,000 words.Available modules vary from year to year.  They usually include:It is also possible to choose one module from another MPhil programme in the Division of Archaeology, providing the opportunity to compare the specific Mesopotamian case study with, e.g., ancient Egypt, or to explore methodological and theoretical issues in the study of early societies.The course structure comprises:1. One module chosen from:2. A second module chosen from:3. A third module chosen from the list in (2) above, or a module from any other taught MPhil course offered in the Division of Archaeology, subject to the consent of the instructor and the Assyriology MPhil co-ordinator.4. Research Skills module5. An independent research dissertation of not more than 15,000 words.The modules may be assessed by written exams, essays (usually 3000-4000 words) or a combination of both. Many of the courses also include non-assessed presentations.G22 Akkadian language and texts: this module is for students with little or no previous knowledge of Akkadian.  Students learn the essential grammar and vocabulary of the language, both in its classic Old Babylonian form (as used in the lawcode of Hammurapi) and in the later literary language, "Standard Babylonian" (as used in the Epic of Gilgamesh). The grammar is covered in the first six weeks, after which teaching takes the form of text-reading classes.  See here for set texts from previous years.G23 Akkadian language and texts: this module is for students already familiar with Akkadian, and takes the form of text-reading classes. It is possible for students to have some say in the choice of set texts, which in the past have ranged across different genres, including letters, legal documents, divination and magical texts, and texts in Assyrian. See here for set texts from previous years.  In addition to a language exam, candidates for this module produce a hand-copy (scale drawing) of a specified cuneiform tablet, and a philological note.G21 Sumerian language and texts: this module is normally only available to students who already have a good knowledge of Akkadian.  The module provides an introduction to the grammar and vocabulary of the language through reading selected texts of the late 3rd and early 2nd millennia BC. See here for set texts from previous years.Mesopotamian culture (G24 and G25): These modules introduce the student to Mesopotamian literature, scholarship and thought. To make the course accessible to those starting the languages, it is built around translated texts and is concerned with their literary history, purpose and social context.G26 Mesopotamian Literature: concentrates on genres of texts traditionally recognized as "literary", including myths and epics, lamentations and wisdom literature. This includes major Akkadian compositions such as the Epic of Gilgamesh and the so-called Epic of Creation, but also a variety of Sumerian compositions.G27 Mesopotamian Religion and Scholarship: covers Mesopotamian thought in the broadest sense, including astronomy and astrology, divination, medicine and magic.Mesopotamian archaeology (G24 and 25): These modules provide a diachronic survey of Mesopotamian archaeology, with emphasis on themes and problems.G24 Archaeology of Mesopotamia I: Prehistory through early states focuses on the late Neolithic through the end of the 3rd millennium BC and addresses issues of urbanism and early states, development of religious institutions and economic bureaucracies, trade and the creation of value, funerary rituals, and the effect of climate change on settlement pattern.G25 Archaeology of Mesopotamia II: Territorial states through empires follows developments of the 2nd and 1st millennia BC, including growth of empires, elaboration of technology, diplomatic exchange and hybridization in art styles.G28 Topics in Mesopotamian history and archaeology: this module is designed to give students who are already familiar with Mesopotamian archaeology the opportunity for more in-depth study in current debates. The course is taught through seminars and directed reading, on subjects selected according to the students' knowledge and interests.Students write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Assyriology. The dissertation is an independent research project; the topic is decided in consultation with teaching staff and should be selected to match your own interests, abilities and previous experience.Applicants for the Assyriology MPhil will normally have undergraduate experience in archaeology, anthropology, classics, or ancient history, but other options are possible and specific knowledge of the ancient Near East is not a prerequisite.The official description in the University's course directory is available here.See also the graduate study funding page and the pages on Mesopotamia at Cambridge.We are always happy to hear from prospective applicants.  For further information, contact Dr Augusta McMahon, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe MPhil in Egyptology is a full-time one-year course, combining teaching on a range of topics with a short research dissertation. The topics are taken from the historical archaeology of ancient Egypt and study of its ancient languages, including Coptic and Demotic. Students may follow either an archaeologically or linguistically oriented pathway or combine elements of both.The course provides the student with a detailed knowledge of one or more aspects of the culture of ancient Egypt, with a focus on historical archaeology, landscape and built environment, material culture, art, and the language of one or more periods of Egypt's history. With the possibility of borrowing one module from the MPhil in Archaeology or MPhil in Assyriology programmes, the student will have the opportunity to place the specific Egyptian case in context, for example by comparing it with contemporary Mesopotamia, by learning methodologies for particular research projects, or by using it to address general and theoretical issues in the study of early societies and cultural heritage.This taught MPhil recruits students who are prepared for graduate work and wish to undertake research in the field of ancient Egypt, but who need further training in either the language(s) or the archaeology of the region. It is a demanding course which delivers competence in language and/or specialist knowledge of Egyptian history and culture over a relatively short time frame.The aims of the course are to:The MPhil in Egyptology is taught through lectures, seminars, museum-based practicals, and written work; the teaching methods vary according to the option chosen (see below). The common goal is to ensure that students acquire a base of knowledge particular to their option. For language papers this includes acquiring translation skills and practicing textual analysis and commentary. For archaeology papers this includes practice in reading critically, analysis, writing and presentation.Lectures are designed to cover major academic disciplines concerned with ancient Egypt: historical archaeology, religion and material culture including art architecture.Language classes teach Ancient Egyptian language at introductory and advanced levels, as well as Coptic and Demotic, with initial instruction in grammar followed by reading classes for which the students prepare prescribed texts appropriate to the level they have achieved.Seminars are designed to provide students with intensive engagement with academic staff across a wide range of subjects relevant to the courses selected. Individual subjects for each seminar are selected in the light of the interests of the students concerned and a reading list supplied. The seminars are designed to be interactive and preparation and participation in seminars is expected of all students.Supervisions with a regular supervisor are conducted on a one-to-one basis and give the student the opportunity to discuss general and specific issues in the conduct of the course. A supervisor, possibly, but not necessarily the same one, will also be appointed for the dissertation, to help with the choice of topic and monitor the progress of the student's research for the dissertation throughout the year. Supervisions provide the student with an opportunity to seek academic information and advice and they provide the forum to monitor a student's progress.Practical sessions in the Fitzwilliam Museum and Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology give students hands-on experience with Egyptian artefacts.The structure of the MPhil in Egyptology includes five elements:Modules are chosen to form a coherent programme of study allowing both breadth and specialisation. Of the three modules besides Research Skills, the first module can be any Egyptology language or archaeology option (all but the last module listed below); the same is true for the second module. The third module can be any module in Egyptian archaeology or culture (modules 5-8 below), but it can also be another MPhil option offered in the Division of Archaeology (module 9 below).This allows students to combine topic, area and method-oriented modules in a way tailored to their particular research interests; the student's choice of modules must be approved by the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator to ensure a coherent course of study.Prospective students are strongly advised to contact the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator Dr Kate Spence about choice of modules and research topic before putting in an application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe MPhil in Egyptology is a full-time one-year course, combining teaching on a range of topics with a short research dissertation. The topics are taken from the historical archaeology of ancient Egypt and study of its ancient languages, including Coptic and Demotic. Students may follow either an archaeologically or linguistically oriented pathway or combine elements of both.The course provides the student with a detailed knowledge of one or more aspects of the culture of ancient Egypt, with a focus on historical archaeology, landscape and built environment, material culture, art, and the language of one or more periods of Egypt's history. With the possibility of borrowing one module from the MPhil in Archaeology or MPhil in Assyriology programmes, the student will have the opportunity to place the specific Egyptian case in context, for example by comparing it with contemporary Mesopotamia, by learning methodologies for particular research projects, or by using it to address general and theoretical issues in the study of early societies and cultural heritage.This taught MPhil recruits students who are prepared for graduate work and wish to undertake research in the field of ancient Egypt, but who need further training in either the language(s) or the archaeology of the region. It is a demanding course which delivers competence in language and/or specialist knowledge of Egyptian history and culture over a relatively short time frame.The aims of the course are to:The MPhil in Egyptology is taught through lectures, seminars, museum-based practicals, and written work; the teaching methods vary according to the option chosen (see below). The common goal is to ensure that students acquire a base of knowledge particular to their option. For language papers this includes acquiring translation skills and practicing textual analysis and commentary. For archaeology papers this includes practice in reading critically, analysis, writing and presentation.Lectures are designed to cover major academic disciplines concerned with ancient Egypt: historical archaeology, religion and material culture including art architecture.Language classes teach Ancient Egyptian language at introductory and advanced levels, as well as Coptic and Demotic, with initial instruction in grammar followed by reading classes for which the students prepare prescribed texts appropriate to the level they have achieved.Seminars are designed to provide students with intensive engagement with academic staff across a wide range of subjects relevant to the courses selected. Individual subjects for each seminar are selected in the light of the interests of the students concerned and a reading list supplied. The seminars are designed to be interactive and preparation and participation in seminars is expected of all students.Supervisions with a regular supervisor are conducted on a one-to-one basis and give the student the opportunity to discuss general and specific issues in the conduct of the course. A supervisor, possibly, but not necessarily the same one, will also be appointed for the dissertation, to help with the choice of topic and monitor the progress of the student's research for the dissertation throughout the year. Supervisions provide the student with an opportunity to seek academic information and advice and they provide the forum to monitor a student's progress.Practical sessions in the Fitzwilliam Museum and Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology give students hands-on experience with Egyptian artefacts.The structure of the MPhil in Egyptology includes five elements:Modules are chosen to form a coherent programme of study allowing both breadth and specialisation. Of the three modules besides Research Skills, the first module can be any Egyptology language or archaeology option (all but the last module listed below); the same is true for the second module. The third module can be any module in Egyptian archaeology or culture (modules 5-8 below), but it can also be another MPhil option offered in the Division of Archaeology (module 9 below).This allows students to combine topic, area and method-oriented modules in a way tailored to their particular research interests; the student's choice of modules must be approved by the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator to ensure a coherent course of study.Prospective students are strongly advised to contact the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator Dr Kate Spence about choice of modules and research topic before putting in an application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The Department of Archaeology offers an outstanding environment for independent research leading to the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).Our supervision expertise in archaeological topics ranges in time from the Palaeolithic to the modern day, and in space from the Americas to the UK and Europe, Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia and Australia. We also offer PhD supervision in archaeological theory, archaeological science, material culture studies and museum and heritage studies.Research in the languages, texts, history, and archaeology of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia is also housed in the Archaeology Division. Our facilities for supporting PhD research are excellent, and our graduate community is vibrant and stimulating. The Haddon Library is conveniently located within the main Archaeology building and houses a wide range of specialist archaeological and anthropological literature, journals, access to online catalogues and wireless internet access.We have laboratory facilities that support specific scientific research projects, including Geoarchaeology, Bioarchaeology, Archaeogenetics, Zooarchaeology, Isotopic Analysis and Material Culture.The Department of Archaeology hosts an official student society, the Archaeological Field Club, which runs a speaker series and organizes other events. Students in Archaeology publish their own academic journal—the Archaeological Review from Cambridge.The graduate community also organises subject-specific discussion groups, currently including the African Archaeology Group, Americas Seminar Group, Ancient Near East seminar series, Archaeology Theory Group, the Asian Archaeology Group, the Egyptian World Seminar Series, the George Pitt-Rivers laboratory Seminars, the Heritage Research Group, the Later European Prehistory Group, the Medieval Archaeology Group, the Palaeolithic-Mesolithic Discussion Group, and the Zooarchaeology Discussion Group. PhD students in the Department have a supervision team of two to three members of staff, who will have expertise in your proposed region, time period, method, and/or theoretical approach. During the first year, we provide training in research skills and appropriate research methods (e.g., GIS, lab skills, advanced languages).If you are interested in applying for admission as a PhD student in the Department of Archaeology at the University of Cambridge, you should look through the links on this page for information about the application process, funding opportunities, and our research and the people who comprise the Department. You are strongly encouraged to email your potential supervisor(s) about your research topic before applying. The PhD is a three-year degree, so it is important that applicants have a well-developed project at the point of application. General queries about the PhD programmes should be addressed to the Department's Graduate Secretary and further details of the programme can be found in the Graduate Admissions Course Directory.To apply for admission to PhD research in the Archaeology Department, you should visit the Graduate Admissions Office website and consult the information on the application procedure found in the Online Graduate Studies Prospectus.Applicants for this course should have achieved a UK Masters (Merit) or the equivalent.If your degree is not from the UK, please check International Qualifications to find the equivalent in your country.All applicants for the PhD will be contacted to arrange a brief interview prior to any offer of a place being made; this interview may be by telephone or Skype.Current MPhil students in Assyriology or Egyptology at the University of Cambridge wishing to continue to the PhD with an ancient language-based research topic must achieve a Merit in relevant language exams (as well as a Merit in the MPhil course) in order to be permitted to continue. Admission for the PhD is not automatic on achieving a Merit; other factors, including the availability of appropriate supervision, are taken into consideration.Suggestions for successful graduate applications Information about funding available to Graduate Students can be found on the 'Funding for Graduate Students' page. The Division of Archaeology offers a number of AHRC Doctoral Awards each year. In archaeological science topics, the Archaeology Department may be able to offer several studentships through its participation in the Cambridge Earth Systems Science NERC Doctoral Training Programme.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeStudying Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia at University: A Conference for Sixth-Formers at the British Museum Studying Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia at University A Conference for Sixth-FormersThe British Museum, London, Thursday May 5th 2016Bookings are now closed. Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern Iraq; ancient Sumer, Assyria and Babylon) bequeathed to posterity some of the most fascinating remains from all of the ancient world.  Today it is possible to learn the languages, study the artefacts, and reconstruct the most varied aspects of these ancient civilisations in astonishing detail.  But since these subjects are not offered at A level, few sixth-formers are aware that they exist as University subjects; indeed, many A level students might never have had the opportunity to learn about these cultures.  The purpose of this one-day conference is to give sixth formers an opportunity to explore what it is like to study Egypt and Mesopotamia at British Universities: to see what makes the subject area so intellectually and culturally exciting, learn about the various degree courses, and understand what admissions tutors are looking for.The programme will include talks about careers, information on admissions, and the opportunity to meet current students and academic staff from many of the institutions in the UK that teach these subjects. There will also be gallery tours (led by current staff and students), talks by British Museum curators, and sample lectures.          Teachers are welcome to bring groups, but individual students are equally welcome. This is, in essence, a nation-wide Open Day for the subject area at large.Attendance is free.  Bookings for this event are now closed.The event is organised by the Division of Archaeology, University of Cambridge, in partnership with the British Museum. Address any queries to: Dr Martin Worthington (mjw65@cam.ac.uk).  Travel bursariesApplications for travel bursaries are now closed.Thanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor and the Thriplow Charitable Trust, we are able to offer c. 15 travel bursaries of up to c. 50 pounds each, to enable sixth formers at state schools to attend the Conference.  The bursaries are administered by the Division of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge.  To apply, 1) write to outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk by 15th April 2016, stating where you will be travelling from, by which means of transport, and the estimated cost; also include (in the text of the email or as a PDF attachment) a 250-word statement on your interest in the subject area (it may include illustrations, but need not); 2) ask a teacher or equivalent (e.g. a museum curator; not a parent) to send a reference which comments on your academic ability and enthusiasm to the same email address, by the same deadline.Applicants will be notified of the outcome shortly after 15th April.  Bursaries will normally be payable on the day itself, in person.  If this creates problems, please let us know when you apply. ProgrammeThe main venue will be the Stevenson lecture theatre in the British Museum.  Please aim to be seated by 10.20.Subject to small adjustments, the programme is as follows.10.25-10.30Martin Worthington and Hratch Papazian (Cambridge)General introduction10.30-10.45Dan Lawrence (Durham)Satellites and Cities in Near Eastern Archaeology10.45-11.00Alice Stevenson (Petrie Museum, UCL)Before the Pyramids: the origins of the ancient Egyptian state11.00-11.15Paul Nicholson (Cardiff)The Catacombs of Anubis at North Saqqara11.15-11.30Selena Wisnom (Oxford)Will Trump take the kingship? Asking the entrails11.30-11.35break11.35-11.50Irving Finkel (British Museum)The Wonder of Cuneiform11.50-12.05Michelle Middleman (Liverpool)Finding Reality in Old Kingdom Tomb Biographies12.05-12.20Kate Spence (Cambridge)Egypt in Nubia: cultures in collision12.20-12.35Martin Worthington (Cambridge)The rain, the wheat, and the trick12.35-13.00lunch (bring your own sandwiches, there will not be time to buy them!)13.00-13.15Yaǧmur Heffron (UCL)Archaeological Excavation: the Filthy Past13.15-13.30Gemma Wood (Swansea)“The Lady of Slaughter” and the Egyptian calendar13.30-13.45Richard Parkinson (Oxford)The archaeology of the heart: Reading Ancient Egyptian texts13.45-14.00Andrew George (SOAS)Be my baby in Babylonia14.00-14.25careers 14.25-14.30vacate lecture theatre14.30-15.00gallery tours (in small groups, led by University staff and/or students)15.00-15.30treasure hunt (in small groups or individually)15.30-16.00gallery tours (in small groups, led by University staff and/or students) Relevant University Open DaysFor those who cannot come to the British Museum on May 5th, here are the dates of relevant Open Days and other events:30th April: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford17th-18th June: Pre-Application Open Days, Department of History, University College London (the Dept offers several courses on Ancient Near Eastern History)24th-25th June: Liverpool University Open Day29th-30th June: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford30th June - 1st July: you can meet Egyptology and Assyriology teaching staff at the Cambridge University Open Day (booking not required).  Contact person: Martin Worthington.1st July: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson.4th-7th July: UCL Ancient World Summer School (includes Egypt and Mesopotamia).17th-30th July: Summer School in Ancient Languages, University of Swansea (includes Hieroglyphs)25th-28th July - St John's College, Cambridge, Archaeology Summer School.  This will be a residential event, which will include excavation training, sample lectures, and interview workshops.  Attendance is completely free, and there are a limited number of travel bursaries for participants from state schools.  There will be a substantial component on Egypt and Mesopotamia (which are "tracks" one can specialise in within the Cambridge Archaeology degree).31st August: deadline for submitting to the Gilgamesh21 project.9th September: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson.10th September: Pre-Application Open Days, Department of History, University College London (the Dept offers several courses on Ancient Near Eastern History); Contact person: Chris Allen.16th September: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford24th September: Liverpool University Open Day30th September: deadline for the Gerald Averay Wainwright Essay Prize - contact by email.8th October: Liverpool University Open Day22nd October: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson. LinksRecordings of modern scholars reading Babylonian and Assyrian poetry.Manchester's free online taster courses in Egyptology.The Gilgamesh21 project (deadline: 31st August)Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, Ancient World Essay Competition© 2017 University of CambridgeRavenRaven
	    An error occurred while processing your request. Note:
        
           If this problem persists then please contact the UIS Service Desk
           (service-desk@uis.cam.ac.uk). Please 
           quote the date and time this error occured and any error message apearing below.
        The Raven web authentication system is provided and managed by University Information Services.© 2017 University of CambridgeYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Department of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThis unique event is organised by the Graduate Admissions Office in conjunction with the Colleges and University's Departments.  The Postgraduate Open day is open to current final year students or graduates who are seeking to enter into postgraduate study at Masters or PhD level. Due to limited places it is essential that you book via the link below:http://www.graduate.study.cam.ac.uk/open-days-and-eventsThe full programme of events is able to download here, and there are a number of ways you can get involved with Archaeology and Biological Anthropology. See schedule below:NB: Spaces are limited for those wishing to attend lectures. Although every effort will be made to guarantee you a space in one of the lectures, we may not be able to accommodate all of those in attendance. Apologies for any inconvenience this may cause. There are no space limitations on the exhibition stand, tours or Q&A session. If you would like to pre-book your space for one of the above lectures, please contact Laure Bonner at outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk.Current graduate students, academic and admissions staff will be on hand throughout the day to answer questions about postgraduate study, student life, the application process, courses and colleges. The International students team will also be present to answer any queries from overseas applicants.Archaeology and Biological Anthropology offer the following courses at Postgraduate level:  Prospective students who are interested in meeting a specific staff member as part of the Postgraduate Open Day should write to Laure Bonner at outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk. Prospective applicants unable to attend on the day are also encouraged to get in touch.    
Prehistoric women’s manual work was tougher than rowing in today’s elite boat crewsThe first study to compare ancient and living female bones shows that women from early agricultural eras had stronger arms than the rowers of Cambridge University’s famously competitive boat clubs. Researchers say the findings suggest a “hidden history” of gruelling manual labour performed by women that stretched across millennia.  Ancient barley took high road to China, changed to summer crop in TibetResearch published in PLOS ONE tells story of prehistoric food globalisationView all news© 2017 University of CambridgeYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Department of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe George Pitt-Rivers Laboratory for Bio-Archaeology supports a range of research into early food, economic plants, and the environmental context of the food quest. Our core resources are our botanical reference collection and a suite of microscopes. These are mostly low power stereoscopes, with some higher power binocular.  We have a close relationship with the Multi-Imaging Centre (a few minutes walk away) for electron microscope use. The lab is also equipped for basic wet chemistry.Our recent projects have included: palaeolithic plant foods, tree exploitation in arid zones, Greco-Roman agriculture, and Eurasian crop plant movement (see FOGLIP).  We favour multidisciplinary research, and archaeobotanists, isotope researchers and archaeogenetics work very closely together in the laboratory, and also work closely with culturally oriented archaeologists. Researchers at all stages of their career meet and exchange ideas on a regular basis, and there are many opportunities for presenting their work to colleagues.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe McBurney Laboratory is one of the few geoarchaeology laboratories in the UK that is dedicated to both the analysis of past landscape systems and the use of space on settlement sites using micromorphological and geoarchaeological techniques. The laboratory is managed by Professor Charles French with the assistance of the Chief Research Technician Tonko Rajkovaca. It undertakes a variety of projects funded by research bodies and developer-funded archaeology on material from around the world.Annual reports of the McBurney Laboratory to the McDonald Institute are available from 2002 to the present and provide a good outline of our research activities.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeWelcome to the website of the Material Culture Laboratory. The lab is a hub for research on material culture in archaeology at Cambridge. Members are researchers at the doctoral, post-doctoral and faculty levels, and current research spans from the Palaeolithic to modern society and from aspects of cognition and symbolism to heritage and identity construction.  Common, but not exclusive, overlapping themes being explored in the laboratory include the use of art in society, the construction of social identities through material objects and the role of technologies in materialising social knowledge. Among many other places, members work in Argentina, eastern North America, India, Sweden, the eastern Baltic, and South Africa. © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe Grahame Clark Laboratory for Zooarchaeology at the University of Cambridge is home to researchers working on various aspects of animal remains including palaeodietary and palaeoenvironmental reconstruction, animal domestication, taphonomy and symbolic aspects of faunal remains. In addition, the laboratory includes researchers working on human skeletal material from historic and prehistoric contexts.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The African Archaeology Group was set up in 2008 to revive the African Seminar previously established by Dr John Alexander. Its aims are to discuss current research programs and results of Cambridge archaeologists working in Africa, to hold seminars by Africanist speakers, to bridge University departments and research bodies interested in Africa's past, and to maintain the tradition of Cambridge's long-standing involvement in African archaeology. Meetings: Tuesdays 4.30pm McDonald Seminar Room (twice a term plus special events) Group Organiser: Matthew Davies, Kate Spence, Laurence Smith, Shadia TahaContact Us: Matthew DaviesWebsite: www.mcdonald.cam.ac.uk/events/african-seminars© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeScientists have sequenced the entire genomes of 4,000-year-old Canaanite individuals who inhabited the Near East region during the Bronze Age, and compared these to other ancient and present-day populations. The results, published in the American Journal of Human Genetics, suggest that present-day Lebanese are direct descendants of the ancient Canaanites.                       The Near East is often described as the cradle of civilisation. The Bronze Age Canaanites, later known as the Phoenicians, introduced many aspects of society that we know today - they created the first alphabet, established colonies throughout the Mediterranean and were mentioned several times in the Bible.However, historical records of the Canaanites are limited. They were mentioned in ancient Greek and Egyptian texts, and the Bible which reports widespread destruction of Canaanite settlements and annihilation of the communities. Experts have long debated who the Canaanites were genetically, what happened to them, who their ancestors were and if they had any descendants today.In the first study of its kind, an international team of scientists have uncovered the genetics of the Canaanite people and a firm link with people living in Lebanon today. The team discovered that more than 90 per cent of present-day Lebanese ancestry is likely to be from the Canaanites, with an additional small proportion of ancestry coming from a different Eurasian population.The team, including researchers from Cambridge University’s Department of Archaeology and Anthropology, and led by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, estimate that new Eurasian people mixed with the Canaanite population about 2,200 to 3,800 years ago at a time when there were many conquests of the region from outside.The analysis of ancient DNA also revealed that the Canaanites themselves were a mixture of local people who settled in farming villages during the Neolithic period and eastern migrants who arrived in the area around 5,000 years ago. "Ancient DNA is becoming an indispensable tool for understanding population movements of the past. This study in particular provides previously inaccessible information about a group of people known only by surviving written accounts and interpretations of archaeological findings,” said Dr C. L. Scheib, one of two Cambridge co-authors, along with Dr Toomas Kivisild.  “The fact that we can retrieve whole genomes from conditions not considered ideal for DNA preservation also shows how far the field has advanced technically," she said.In the study, researchers sequenced whole genomes of five Canaanite individuals who lived 4,000 years ago in a city known as Sidon in present-day Lebanon. Scientists also sequenced the genomes of 99 present-day Lebanese and analysed the genetic relationship between the ancient Canaanites and modern Lebanese.Dr Marc Haber, first author from the Sanger Institute, said: “It was a pleasant surprise to be able to extract and analyse DNA from 4,000-year-old human remains found in a hot environment, which is not known for preserving DNA well. We overcame this challenge by taking samples from the petrous bone in the skull, which is a very tough bone with a high density of ancient DNA.”Dr Claude Doumet-Serhal, co-author and Director of the Sidon excavation site in Lebanon, said: “For the first time we have genetic evidence for substantial continuity in the region, from the Bronze Age Canaanite population through to the present day. These results agree with the continuity seen by archaeologists.“Collaborations between archaeologists and geneticists greatly enrich both fields of study and can answer questions about ancestry in ways that experts in neither field can answer alone.”   Adapted from a Wellcome Trust press release. DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2017.06.013Prehistoric women’s manual work was tougher than rowing in today’s elite boat crewsThe first study to compare ancient and living female bones shows that women from early agricultural eras had stronger arms than the rowers of Cambridge University’s famously competitive boat clubs. Researchers say the findings suggest a “hidden history” of gruelling manual labour performed by women that stretched across millennia.  Ancient barley took high road to China, changed to summer crop in TibetResearch published in PLOS ONE tells story of prehistoric food globalisationView all news© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Archaeology involves the study of the human past through material remains, sites and landscapes. If you are interested in learning about the past by combining fieldwork and scientific methods with thinking deeply about the relationships between humans and the material world, then Archaeology is the subject for you!Over the course of your studies, you might find yourself analysing deformations in medieval skulls; translating Egyptian hieroglyphs; reconstructing past landscapes; learning about radio-carbon dating; studying imagery in a Babylonian poem; or debating the politics of cultural heritage.Students find studying archaeology enormously interesting and rewarding, and the skills it develops, such as lateral thinking, problem solving and data analysis, are greatly sought after by top employers in many fields.For 2017 entry, undergraduate study takes place within our brand new Single-Honours Archaeology Tripos.To find out more about the course, our academics, research and facilities in person, visit us on one of our Open Days and Outreach Events.Find out more by signing up to our Undergraduate Outreach Mailing list or get in touch at outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk  Cambridge is a world-leading centre for archaeological research. Undertaking a postgraduate degree at Cambridge, whether taught or by research, will provide you with the foundation to advance your job prospects, to deepen your understanding of your chosen field of study, and to develop new skills in researching, thinking and presenting.We offer taught 1-year MPhils in Archaeology, Egyptology or Assyriology. We also offer an MPhil in Archaeological Research.The MPhil provides an intense programme of research training. Seminars in which students develop their research skills and present their ideas to an audience of fellow students are central to this. Students also work closely with a supervisor to develop a dissertation.The PhD, leading to the submission of an 80,000 word thesis, has launched the careers of distinguished scholars teaching in universities around the world. Students have both a primary and a secondary supervisor, and regular reviews provide a structured opportunity for feedback on how the research is progressing.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeCambridge is a great place to be a student and has a truly diverse community. Just over 11 per cent of the university's undergraduates (around 1,300 students) are from overseas (outside the EU), representing more than 65 countries. Wherever you're from, you'll quickly start to make friends and feel at home, and with everything that's on offer, you'll soon wonder how you're going to fit it all in!Archaeology has a dedicated International Student Liaison Officer, Dr Susanne Hakenbeck, who is happy to receive your enquiries regarding admissions, finance, applications, entrance requirements, visas etc. Please get in touch!You can also refer to the main Cambridge website for International Students for further information. Download the 2018 Cambridge University International Student guide.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeCONTENTS1. Funding information for prospective graduate students2. Funding For Archaeology Graduate Students A. Sources of Funding  B. Funding Deadlines for 2018/193. Funding For Egyptology Students4. Funding For Assyriology Students5. Other Financial SupportThe University Graduate Admissions provides information about the Fees and Costs involved in Graduate study as well as information on Funding Your Studies.The funding you will be eligible to apply for will be dependent on your fee status and your chosen course of study, with some funding only available for Home and EU students and other awards aimed at Oversees students. Visit the Student Registry website to find out more about Your Fee Status.The University holds three main funding rounds for all graduate applicants with deadlines in October, December and January for admittance the following academic year.All prospective students who have applied for 2017-18 entry and have a conditional offer of acceptance will automatically be considered for the award of these bursaries as appropriate to their chosen field of study. This bursary is for the best qualified new UK/EU/Overseas entrant to St Edmund's College who intends to take the MPhil in Archaeological Science and specialise in any aspect of Geoarchaeology. It is jointly funded by the McBurney Laboratory for Geoarchaeology and St Edmund's College, Cambridge with a £5000 bursary award.A total of 5 bursary awards of £2000 each are available across the range of course options for the MPhil in Archaeology and t bursary awards in Biological Anthropology.**Note: Should the best qualified new UK/EU/Overseas entrant be in receipt of another offer for a full award or scholarship then the bursary will be awarded to another suitable applicant. The Department of Archaeology participates in the AHRC Doctoral Training Programme and the Cambridge Earth Systems Science NERC Doctoral Training Programme.The University of Cambridge is pleased to announce that it has been awarded funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) under a Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) for 40 doctoral studentships per year. Studentships will be available in all arts and humanities subject areas offered throughout the university. An allocation of these studentships wil be made available to students within the Division of Archaeology.Applications for AHRC awards are made as part of the Graduate Admissions online GRADSAF application process. Students should ensure they include a well structured research proposal and are encouraged to formulate this in communication with a potential supervisor in the Department of Archaeology. You can view the research interests and current research projects of the academic staff in the Department of Archaeology through the Directory.This year the Department of Archaeology & Anthropology will be again participating in the Earth Systems Science NERC DTP.The Department is inviting PhD applications from high caliber applicants interested in pursuing topics in Archaeology and Biological Anthropology in the either the Biology or Climate Themes. You can find out more about NERC DTP studentships here: http://essdtp.esc.cam.ac.uk/ Please contact us to discuss your interest in applying.The Department of Archaeology & Anthropology is pleased to participate in a new ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership at the University of Cambridge. A range of studentships are available across the social sciences at Cambridge; if you are interested in how society works and how it can handle global challenges, a DTP studentship will give you a world-class training programme, with access to leading international scholars both at Cambridge and other DTPs, and a wide community of fellow social scientists.You can find out more about ESRC DTP studentships here: http://esrc-dtc.cshss.cam.ac.uk/esrc-dtp Please contact us to discuss your interest in applying.The Association of British and Turkish Academics runs a competition open to PhD students at UK Universities (and those in the first year after the PhD) *in all subject areas*. http://abtanet.org.uk/Awards/ Students in Egyptology are eligible for the same funding as students in Archaeology (see above). In addition:Christ's College is offering a Lady Wallis Budge Studentship for a PhD student in Egyptology at the Department of Archaeology at the University of Cambridge from October 2015. The total value of the Studentship will be a contribution towards fees and maintenance of up to £19,892 p.a. (equalling full costs for UK and EU students, but overseas applicants can also apply for the same amount and will receive full consideration) for one year in the first instance, with the possibility of renewal for a further two years subject to satisfactory progress.Candidates need to apply for and be accepted in the Egyptology PhD programme at the Department of Archaeology and Anthropology at the University of Cambridge to be eligible for the Studentship. Further information on the PhD programme and application procedure can be found here. The successful candidate must become a member of Christ's College.To be considered for the Studentship, the PhD application must have been submitted electronically through the online application system. The successful candidate will be notified in March.Questions regarding the Studentship may be directed to Dr Rune Nyord, Christ's College, St Andrew's Street, Cambridge CB2 3BU, United Kingdom (rn321@cam.ac.uk).The Thomas Mulvey Egyptology Fund is devoted to the encouragement of research in Egyptology.Studentship: preference is given to candidates who are undertaking research in Egyptology for the PhD degree in Cambridge, or who are applying to do this. The Award will be for up to £4000; it will be held for one year, but a successful candidate may reapply in subsequent years.Grants: preference is given to current Cambridge graduate students in Egyptology; UTOs, Postdoctoral Fellows and scholars affiliated with the University of Cambridge undertaking research in Egyptology may also apply. Grant applications should not normally exceed £2000; the majority of grants awarded are much smaller.Applications must be sent to the Registrary, Faculty of Human, Social, and Political Science, The Mond Building, Free School Lane, Cambridge, CB2 3RF (fjf24@cam.ac.uk). The application form, available from the Registrary, must be returned no later than 31 May 2015.Letters of reference (two for the Studentship, one for grants) should be sent directly to the Assistant Registrary by referees, to arrive no later than 31 May. Email is acceptable.If there is a suitable candidate, the Thomas Mulvey Student will be elected not later than 31 July 2015. Grants from the Fund will be made by the same date. The value of individual awards, including both grants and the Studentship, will be decided by the Management Committee after reviewing all applications.Students in Assyriology are eligible for the same funding as students in Archaeology (see above). In addition, see the Mesopotamian Funding page.Several colleges offer research scholarships to home and overseas students. The following colleges have advertised substantial or fully funded scholarships: Corpus Christi, Emmanuel, Jesus (especially for Australian and for Chinese citizens), King's, Magdalene, Murray Edwards, Newnham, Pembroke, Peterhouse, Queens', St. Catharine's (for Malaysian citizens), St. John's (including special scholarships for Graduates of the University of Rome (Aldobrandini), archaeologists (Paskin) and South African citizens (Bradlow)), Sidney Sussex, Trinity, Trinity Hall and Wolfson. Members of staff in the department of archaeology will happily give advice.All students undertaking a PhD with an element of fieldwork are eligible to apply to the Department for support with the costs of fieldwork. Information for students within the Department of Archaeology can be found here. Students who are funded by the AHRC may be able to apply for additional fieldwork funding through this scheme and should consult the AHRC pages here.The Wiener - Anspach Foundation awards research grants to Cambridge PhD students who wish to spend up to one year at the Université libre de Bruxelles as part of their PhD studies. These non-renewable grants are open to students from all fields. Please note they are not available for the first year of study. More information is available on the Wiener - Anspach Foundation website. Cambridge Funding SearchCurrent and prospective graduate students can use the Cambridge Funding Search to locate funding within the University.http://www.student-funding.cam.ac.uk/ The European Funding Guide is the largest online-platform in the EU for finding financial aid. The platform contains over 12,000 scholarships, grants and awards across the whole EU worth more than 27 billion Euros per year. Over 4,000 of these are specifically targeted at UK students.http://www.european-funding-guide.eu/    
© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeCONTENTS1. Funding information for prospective graduate students2. Funding For Archaeology Graduate Students A. Sources of Funding  B. Funding Deadlines for 2018/193. Funding For Egyptology Students4. Funding For Assyriology Students5. Other Financial SupportThe University Graduate Admissions provides information about the Fees and Costs involved in Graduate study as well as information on Funding Your Studies.The funding you will be eligible to apply for will be dependent on your fee status and your chosen course of study, with some funding only available for Home and EU students and other awards aimed at Oversees students. Visit the Student Registry website to find out more about Your Fee Status.The University holds three main funding rounds for all graduate applicants with deadlines in October, December and January for admittance the following academic year.All prospective students who have applied for 2017-18 entry and have a conditional offer of acceptance will automatically be considered for the award of these bursaries as appropriate to their chosen field of study. This bursary is for the best qualified new UK/EU/Overseas entrant to St Edmund's College who intends to take the MPhil in Archaeological Science and specialise in any aspect of Geoarchaeology. It is jointly funded by the McBurney Laboratory for Geoarchaeology and St Edmund's College, Cambridge with a £5000 bursary award.A total of 5 bursary awards of £2000 each are available across the range of course options for the MPhil in Archaeology and t bursary awards in Biological Anthropology.**Note: Should the best qualified new UK/EU/Overseas entrant be in receipt of another offer for a full award or scholarship then the bursary will be awarded to another suitable applicant. The Department of Archaeology participates in the AHRC Doctoral Training Programme and the Cambridge Earth Systems Science NERC Doctoral Training Programme.The University of Cambridge is pleased to announce that it has been awarded funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) under a Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) for 40 doctoral studentships per year. Studentships will be available in all arts and humanities subject areas offered throughout the university. An allocation of these studentships wil be made available to students within the Division of Archaeology.Applications for AHRC awards are made as part of the Graduate Admissions online GRADSAF application process. Students should ensure they include a well structured research proposal and are encouraged to formulate this in communication with a potential supervisor in the Department of Archaeology. You can view the research interests and current research projects of the academic staff in the Department of Archaeology through the Directory.This year the Department of Archaeology & Anthropology will be again participating in the Earth Systems Science NERC DTP.The Department is inviting PhD applications from high caliber applicants interested in pursuing topics in Archaeology and Biological Anthropology in the either the Biology or Climate Themes. You can find out more about NERC DTP studentships here: http://essdtp.esc.cam.ac.uk/ Please contact us to discuss your interest in applying.The Department of Archaeology & Anthropology is pleased to participate in a new ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership at the University of Cambridge. A range of studentships are available across the social sciences at Cambridge; if you are interested in how society works and how it can handle global challenges, a DTP studentship will give you a world-class training programme, with access to leading international scholars both at Cambridge and other DTPs, and a wide community of fellow social scientists.You can find out more about ESRC DTP studentships here: http://esrc-dtc.cshss.cam.ac.uk/esrc-dtp Please contact us to discuss your interest in applying.The Association of British and Turkish Academics runs a competition open to PhD students at UK Universities (and those in the first year after the PhD) *in all subject areas*. http://abtanet.org.uk/Awards/ Students in Egyptology are eligible for the same funding as students in Archaeology (see above). In addition:Christ's College is offering a Lady Wallis Budge Studentship for a PhD student in Egyptology at the Department of Archaeology at the University of Cambridge from October 2015. The total value of the Studentship will be a contribution towards fees and maintenance of up to £19,892 p.a. (equalling full costs for UK and EU students, but overseas applicants can also apply for the same amount and will receive full consideration) for one year in the first instance, with the possibility of renewal for a further two years subject to satisfactory progress.Candidates need to apply for and be accepted in the Egyptology PhD programme at the Department of Archaeology and Anthropology at the University of Cambridge to be eligible for the Studentship. Further information on the PhD programme and application procedure can be found here. The successful candidate must become a member of Christ's College.To be considered for the Studentship, the PhD application must have been submitted electronically through the online application system. The successful candidate will be notified in March.Questions regarding the Studentship may be directed to Dr Rune Nyord, Christ's College, St Andrew's Street, Cambridge CB2 3BU, United Kingdom (rn321@cam.ac.uk).The Thomas Mulvey Egyptology Fund is devoted to the encouragement of research in Egyptology.Studentship: preference is given to candidates who are undertaking research in Egyptology for the PhD degree in Cambridge, or who are applying to do this. The Award will be for up to £4000; it will be held for one year, but a successful candidate may reapply in subsequent years.Grants: preference is given to current Cambridge graduate students in Egyptology; UTOs, Postdoctoral Fellows and scholars affiliated with the University of Cambridge undertaking research in Egyptology may also apply. Grant applications should not normally exceed £2000; the majority of grants awarded are much smaller.Applications must be sent to the Registrary, Faculty of Human, Social, and Political Science, The Mond Building, Free School Lane, Cambridge, CB2 3RF (fjf24@cam.ac.uk). The application form, available from the Registrary, must be returned no later than 31 May 2015.Letters of reference (two for the Studentship, one for grants) should be sent directly to the Assistant Registrary by referees, to arrive no later than 31 May. Email is acceptable.If there is a suitable candidate, the Thomas Mulvey Student will be elected not later than 31 July 2015. Grants from the Fund will be made by the same date. The value of individual awards, including both grants and the Studentship, will be decided by the Management Committee after reviewing all applications.Students in Assyriology are eligible for the same funding as students in Archaeology (see above). In addition, see the Mesopotamian Funding page.Several colleges offer research scholarships to home and overseas students. The following colleges have advertised substantial or fully funded scholarships: Corpus Christi, Emmanuel, Jesus (especially for Australian and for Chinese citizens), King's, Magdalene, Murray Edwards, Newnham, Pembroke, Peterhouse, Queens', St. Catharine's (for Malaysian citizens), St. John's (including special scholarships for Graduates of the University of Rome (Aldobrandini), archaeologists (Paskin) and South African citizens (Bradlow)), Sidney Sussex, Trinity, Trinity Hall and Wolfson. Members of staff in the department of archaeology will happily give advice.All students undertaking a PhD with an element of fieldwork are eligible to apply to the Department for support with the costs of fieldwork. Information for students within the Department of Archaeology can be found here. Students who are funded by the AHRC may be able to apply for additional fieldwork funding through this scheme and should consult the AHRC pages here.The Wiener - Anspach Foundation awards research grants to Cambridge PhD students who wish to spend up to one year at the Université libre de Bruxelles as part of their PhD studies. These non-renewable grants are open to students from all fields. Please note they are not available for the first year of study. More information is available on the Wiener - Anspach Foundation website. Cambridge Funding SearchCurrent and prospective graduate students can use the Cambridge Funding Search to locate funding within the University.http://www.student-funding.cam.ac.uk/ The European Funding Guide is the largest online-platform in the EU for finding financial aid. The platform contains over 12,000 scholarships, grants and awards across the whole EU worth more than 27 billion Euros per year. Over 4,000 of these are specifically targeted at UK students.http://www.european-funding-guide.eu/    
© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The Department of Archaeology offers an outstanding environment for teaching and research leading to the degree of Master of Philosophy (MPhil). We offer four MPhil courses, in Archaeology, Archaeological Research, Assyriology and Egyptology.Our emphasis at the MPhil level in all four courses is on research–led teaching, so that staff and students interact in lectures, seminars, language classes and laboratory-based practicals with the aims of mastering the basics of theory and method, while also engaging students as participants in ongoing research projects. Our MPhil courses allow great flexibility in tailoring choices to a student's specific interests and background. Our excellent staff:student ratio means regular contact between students and staff, while the McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research hosts a wide range of research seminars and discussion groups, and facilitates interaction within a diverse post-graduate and post-doctoral research environment.  The following MPhil programmes and options tracks are available in most years. Prospective applicants wishing to follow a particular track should contact the Graduate Administrator to check on course availability for the year they are applying for.Our facilities for supporting MPhil teaching and research are excellent, and our graduate community is vibrant and stimulating. The Haddon Library is conveniently located within the main Archaeology Division building and houses a wide range of specialist archaeological and anthropological literature, journals, access to online catalogues and wireless internet access.We have laboratory facilities that support scientific research projects, including Geoarchaeology, Bioarchaeology, Archaeogenetics, Zooarchaeology, Isotopic Analysis and Material Culture.The Department of Archaeology hosts an official student society, the Archaeological Field Club, which runs a speaker series and organizes other events. Students in Archaeology publish their own academic journal—the Archaeological Review from Cambridge.The graduate community also organises subject-specific discussion groups, currently including the African Archaeology Group, Americas Seminar Group, Ancient Near East Seminar Series, Archaeology Theory Group, the Asian Archaeology Group, the Egyptian World Seminar Series, the George Pitt-Rivers laboratory Seminars, the Heritage Research Group, the Later European Prehistory Group, the Medieval Archaeology Group, the Palaeolithic-Mesolithic Discussion Group, and the Zooarchaeology Discussion Group.MPhil students in the Department will have a primary supervisor with expertise in your chosen geographic region, time period, and/or approach. However, you will certainly interact with many other members of staff during the year. All of our MPhil courses run from 1st October until 31st August, with the summer months—July and August—usually devoted to writing the dissertation, required of all MPhil students.If you are interested in applying for admission as an MPhil student, you should look through the links on this page for information about the application process, funding opportunities, our research and the people who comprise the Department. We do not require a research proposal at the point of application for any of the MPhil programmes other than for the MPhil in Archaeological Research, but we strongly encourage you to include detailed information about your research interests on your application form.General queries about the MPhil programmes should be addressed to the Department's Graduate Secretary.To apply for admission to all MPhil degrees in the Archaeology Department, you should visit the Graduate Admissions Office website and consult the information on the application procedure found in the Online Graduate Studies Prospectus.Applications for all four MPhil degrees can be submitted from September through the end of April for entry in the following academic year. Early application (by mid–December) is encouraged, particularly if the applicant is applying for funding, since earlier deadlines will apply.The Department of Archaeology expects all MPhil applications to indicate an area of specialisation and a brief outline of a topic for research in the appropriate box of the application form. Suggestions for successful graduate applications © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThis course provides training in research and analytical skills, a critical appreciation of archaeology, the human past, and its place in the modern world, as well as expertise in a chosen, specialist region or area. Students can specialise in any one of the following options:Within this broad structure, the Department offers students great flexibility in combining modules; students may explore (for example), a region and a method, or choose a heritage emphasis. Students take three modules in a combination specific to their chosen option. Students choosing Archaeology of the Americas, Archaeology of Egypt, European Archaeology, Medieval Archaeology, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Palaeolithic and Mesolithic Archaeology, or South Asian Archaeology usually takeThe Archaeological Heritage and Museums option and the Archaeological Science option require different combinations; see the web page for each course option for further information.All MPhil students take a Research Skills Module and write a dissertation.Students unsure of their interests may apply at first for the MPhil in Archaeology (course option not initially specified), but will be expected to specify one of the option choices above by the second week of their first term. Please contact the MPhil Coordinator (through the Graduate Secretary) for further advice on option choices in advance of application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThis course provides training in research and analytical skills, a critical appreciation of archaeology, the human past, and its place in the modern world, as well as expertise in a chosen, specialist region or area. Students can specialise in any one of the following options:Within this broad structure, the Department offers students great flexibility in combining modules; students may explore (for example), a region and a method, or choose a heritage emphasis. Students take three modules in a combination specific to their chosen option. Students choosing Archaeology of the Americas, Archaeology of Egypt, European Archaeology, Medieval Archaeology, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Palaeolithic and Mesolithic Archaeology, or South Asian Archaeology usually takeThe Archaeological Heritage and Museums option and the Archaeological Science option require different combinations; see the web page for each course option for further information.All MPhil students take a Research Skills Module and write a dissertation.Students unsure of their interests may apply at first for the MPhil in Archaeology (course option not initially specified), but will be expected to specify one of the option choices above by the second week of their first term. Please contact the MPhil Coordinator (through the Graduate Secretary) for further advice on option choices in advance of application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Dr Elizabeth DeMarraisDr John Creese This MPhil contains two regional courses, taught in alternate years: Key themes covered in both courses include:Cross-cutting themes include material culture, the social aspects of technology and economy, symbolism, the nature of power and authority, social identity, gender, and ethnicity in past societies.This course option is appropriate for students with some background in American archaeology and for students new to the subject. This MPhil follows the general structure of the MPhil in Archaeology (link to MPhil in Archaeology page). For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in American Archaeology. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff; some are based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork or studies of museum collections, others on analysis of existing databases or published literature. Some recent MPhil dissertation topics on the Archaeology of the Americas have included:This MPhil option also offers the possibility of practical work with the extensive American collections in the Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology. For further information, contact Dr Elizabeth DeMarrais, co-ordinator for this option or Prof Marie Louise Sorensen, overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Division of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Prof Charles French and Dr Tamsin O'ConnellDr Preston Miracle, Prof. Martin Jones,  and other staff. This MPhil allows students to familiarise themselves with the basic theories and approaches within archaeological science, particularly within the fields of geoarchaeology, zooarchaeology, archaeobotany, genetics and isotopic and molecular archaeology. You are expected to learn about standard analytical techniques used in archaeological science and environmental archaeology applications, and gain hands-on experience of at least two laboratory techniques that will form the basis of a specialisation and research. With the dissertation you are expected to complete an intensive, self-motivated study of an archaeological science problem, with a high quality of research organisation and presentation. The course discusses major methods and themes in:Some cross-cutting themes that link the different analytical approaches include the exploitation of landscapes, agricultural beginnings and intensification, food resources, and the relationships of these to human settlement and landscape change. This course option is appropriate for both students with background in archaeological science and students new to the subject. The structure of this MPhil follows the general structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Archaeological Science. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff; some are based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork or studies of museum collections, others on analysis of existing databases or published literature. Some recent MPhil dissertations and project topics in Archaeological Science include:This MPhil option also has a number of field trips to archaeological sites and landscapes in Cambridgeshire and sometimes offers the possibility of field trips to sites further afield such as Stonehenge and Avebury. For further information, contact Prof Charles French, co-ordinator for this option, or Prof Marie Louise Sorensen, overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Division of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThis course provides training in research and analytical skills, a critical appreciation of archaeology, the human past, and its place in the modern world, as well as expertise in a chosen, specialist region or area. Students can specialise in any one of the following options:Within this broad structure, the Department offers students great flexibility in combining modules; students may explore (for example), a region and a method, or choose a heritage emphasis. Students take three modules in a combination specific to their chosen option. Students choosing Archaeology of the Americas, Archaeology of Egypt, European Archaeology, Medieval Archaeology, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Palaeolithic and Mesolithic Archaeology, or South Asian Archaeology usually takeThe Archaeological Heritage and Museums option and the Archaeological Science option require different combinations; see the web page for each course option for further information.All MPhil students take a Research Skills Module and write a dissertation.Students unsure of their interests may apply at first for the MPhil in Archaeology (course option not initially specified), but will be expected to specify one of the option choices above by the second week of their first term. Please contact the MPhil Coordinator (through the Graduate Secretary) for further advice on option choices in advance of application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThis MPhil option is a general category for those students whose interests do not allow them easily to choose one of the options listed above. Applicants can be accepted into this option as an initial step. Once they have been accepted and have arrived in Cambridge, they can identify a supervisor and a dissertation topic in consultation with members of staff that will enable them to transfer to the appropriate option later in the Michaelmas term.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgePlease see also the MPhil in Egyptology for additional Egyptology coursesDr Kate SpenceDr Hratch Papazian This MPhil teaches the historical archaeology of ancient Egypt. The course alternates between years. In 20012–13 the focus will be on the New Kingdom and later periods of Egyptian history (c. 1550 BC–330 BC) while in 2013–14 we will cover the processes of state formation to the beginning of the New Kingdom (c. 3500 BC–1550 BC). Within this chronological framework a series of interlinking topics will be treated including:A strong emphasis will be placed on integrating textual, archaeological and artistic records throughout the course. This course option is appropriate both for students new to the subject of Egyptian Archaeology and for students with a background in Egyptology wishing to develop their knowledge of archaeological theory and practice. The structure of this MPhil follows the general structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take: In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Egyptian archaeology. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff; most will be based on published literature but some may be based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork, studies of museum collections, or analysis of existing databases. Some recent MPhil dissertations topics in Egyptian Archaeology include:This MPhil option sometimes offers the possibility of practical work with the large Egyptology collections in the Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology and the Fitzwilliam Museum. For further information contact Dr Kate Spence, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Prof Marie Louise SørensenDr Preston Miracle, Prof John Robb and other staff. This MPhil teaches the prehistory of Europe, covering the span from about 10,000 BC through the Roman period. Covering the area from the Mediterranean to Scandinavia and from Eastern Europe to the Atlantic, it traces and discusses the dramatic changes characterising this span:Cross-cutting themes linking treatment of periods include material culture, social aspects of technology and economy, symbolism and culture, and social identities and values such as gender, the body, and political status and affiliation. This course option is appropriate for both students with background in European prehistory and students new to the subject. The general structure of this MPhil follows the general structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in European Prehistory. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff; some are based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork or studies of museum collections, others on analysis of existing databases or published literature. Some recent MPhil dissertations topics in European Prehistory include:This MPhil option sometimes offers the possibility of field trips to sites such as Stonehenge and Avebury, as well as practical work with prehistoric European collections in the Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology. For further information, contact Prof Marie Louise Sorensen, co-ordinator for this option and overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Department of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Prof Marie Louise SørensenDr Gilly Carr, Dr Dacia Viejo Rose, Dr Lila Janik, Dr Chris Wingfield, Dr Jody Joy This MPhil teaches Heritage Studies and Museums, covering the core issues and approaches within the field of heritage generally (including tangible and tangible, movable and immovable heritage) and museums specifically. It traces the development of heritage as a public enterprise whether in the form of museums or heritage organisations and legislation, and focuses on the ways this field has expanded and the core issues that now defines it. Some of the key themes include:The cross-cutting concerns are to develop insight into the historical development of the fields and to understand how these are continuously developing practices and concerns responding to social needs as well as established practices and power relations. This course option is appropriate both for students of archaeology who want to specialise in heritage and museums and to students coming from other disciplines wanting to enter these fields of studies. The general structure of this MPhil follows that of the structure of the MPhil in Archaeology but would normally expect the students to take the three specialised heritage and museums papers:All three modules are lecture based, but also include seminars, various small-group discussions, and fieldtrips.This combination of papers allows students to develop specialised in-depth knowledge of the connecting fields of heritage and museums, applying what they learn in seminars and museums practicals.In addition, students take the Research Skills module (G01) and write a 15,000 words dissertation on a topic relating to heritage or museums. This offers the students the opportunity to conduct independent original research on a topic selected by them under guidance of the academic staff. The dissertation may be based on original fieldwork (surveys, observations, archival) or library based. Some recent MPhil dissertations and topics in Archaeological Heritage and Museums include:The students will all be members of the Heritage Research Group, and be actively involved (if they wish) in planning its activities including the annual Cambridge Heritage Seminar. For further information, contact Prof M.L.S. Sørensen, co-ordinator for this MPhil option and overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Department of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Dr Susanne HakenbeckDr Catherine Hills, Dr Sam Lucy, Dr Alison Leonard This MPhil covers the archaeology of Britain and continental Europe, during late antiquity and the early Middle Ages, broadly the first millennium AD. This era was characterized by profound social and economic disintegration and metamorphosis during which the world of late antiquity was transformed into a recognisable antecedent of modern Europe. Key themes covered in this course include the materialization of identity and ideology, especially the transition from pre-Christian to Christian beliefs and practices; the process of state formation; the collapse and revival of urbanism and the emergence of a market economy; the evolution of the physical and political landscape and the impact of expansion and catastrophe. Medieval archaeology benefits from a wealth of archaeological, scientific and historical sources, ranging from molecular evidence (DNA and isotope data) to entire landscapes best viewed from the air. Study of the archaeologies of power, justice, conflict, migration, identity, settlement, domestic space, the family, religion, death and disease bring new perspectives to familiar institutions and monuments such as towns, villages and churches. This course uses the full range of archaeological method and theory, and also fosters interdisciplinary approaches in incorporating the study of history, art history, anthropology, historical geography, literary sources and scientific methods (a rare combination of approaches for which this subject is unusually well suited). There are ample opportunities for fieldwork including group visits, volunteering on established research programmes and independent research.As a wide-ranging course the Medieval Archaeology MPhil option is intended for students with a diverse range of educational backgrounds (indeed such diversity enriches the learning environment). Students can come to the Medieval Archaeology MPhil option from previous study in archaeology including medieval or historical archaeology, from related subjects such as history, anthropology or geography or be new to the subject. For your three main modules, you takeIn addition, you would attend a Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Medieval Archaeology.You may also choose to attend lectures offered by Cambridge's Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff. Some projects are based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork or studies of museum collections, others on analysis of existing databases or published literature. Specific dissertation supervision expertise at Cambridge includes:Time, Space and Themes:Scientific Methods: For further information, contact Dr Susanne Hakenbeck, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgePlease see also the MPhil in Assyriology for additional courses Co-ordinator: Dr Augusta McMahon The CourseThis MPhil course covers the archaeology of the prehistoric and historical periods of Mesopotamia, from c 6000 BC to the Persian Period. The course is divided chronologically, with each half taught in alternate years: The ThemesThemes addressed include:This course option is appropriate for students with some background in Mesopotamian archaeology and for students new to the subject. Students wishing to combine study of the ancient languages with the archaeology and culture of Mesopotamia should apply for the MPhil in Assyriology. The StructureThe structure of this MPhil follows the structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Mesopotamian Archaeology. The dissertation is an independent in-depth research project; it may be based on fieldwork or museum collections, or on analysis of existing literature. For further information, contact Dr Augusta McMahon, co-ordinator for this option, or Prof Marie Louise Sorensen, overall MPhil co-ordinator for the Department of Archaeology.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Co-ordinator: Dr Preston Miracle The CourseThis course provides a foundation in Palaeolithic and Mesolithic Archaeology. We start with the emergence of the first evidence of hominin material culture 2.5 million years ago. We then move on to the evolution, adaptations, and dispersals of hominins in Africa and into the rest of the Old World. We examine in detail the emergence and dispersal of anatomically modern humans, giving particular focus on the diversity of their cultures and adaptations in different parts of the Old World. We will finish with how people made sense of and responded to the dramatic environmental changes that occurred leading up to the end of the last ice age 11,500 years ago.  Students will be expected to acquire a good foundation in Early Prehisotric archaeology, including theoretical approaches to the subject, methods of analysis, material culture, and the different hominin species that created this record. The ThemePalaeolithic Transitions The StructureThe structure of this MPhil follows the structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in South Asian Archaeology. For further information, contact Dr Preston Miracle, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Co-ordinator: Dr Jason Hawkes  The CourseThis MPhil teaches the archaeology of the prehistoric, proto-historic and Early Historic periods in South Asia, covering the span from about 7,000 BC through AD 450. The course presents an integrated perspective on the archaeology of South Asia, and puts the subcontinent into its broader regional context. It traces and discusses the dramatic changes characterising this span, which include:This MPhil option offers the possibility of trips to museums in the UK that have important collections of South Asian artifacts, as well as practical work with South Asian collections in the Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology.  The ThemeThe investigation of individual issues and periods will be linked by themes focusing on material culture, social aspects of technology and economy, symbolism and cultures. This course option is appropriate for both students with background in South Asian archaeology and students new to the subject. The StructureThe structure of this MPhil follows the structure of the MPhil in Archaeology. For their three modules, students take:In addition, students take the Research Skills module and write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in South Asian Archaeology. The DissertationThe dissertation is an independent in-depth research project; it may be based on fieldwork or museum collections, or on analysis of existing literature. The dissertation offers a chance to undertake an independent, original research project under the guidance of academic staff; some are based on laboratory analyses, fieldwork or studies of museum collections, others on analysis of existing databases or published literature. Some recent MPhil dissertations topics in South Asian archaeology include: For further information, contact Dr Jason Hawkes, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The Cambridge MPhil in Assyriology is unique in the UK in our combination of the ancient languages, history, archaeology and culture of Mesopotamia. MPhil Assyriology students will join a lively community of Near Eastern scholars, including students on the MPhil in Mesopotamian Archaeology, PhD students, McDonald Institute post-doctoral scholars, and permanent members of teaching and research staff.The Assyriology MPhil is designed to be flexible in response to the needs of students with different academic backgrounds and interests. We aim to provide the student with a good knowledge of one or both of the principal languages of ancient Mesopotamia (Akkadian and Sumerian), combined with a detailed study of aspects of Mesopotamian archaeology and culture, from the later prehistoric periods (from 6000 BC) through the earliest literate and urban societies of the Near East to the Assyrian and Babylonian empires.The Assyriology MPhil may act as a self-contained course providing a good general introduction to Mesopotamia, or it may be a conversion course for those who plan to use Mesopotamian textual sources to undertake doctoral research. It is appropriate both for students with no previous knowledge of Mesopotamian languages or archaeology and for students with some knowledge of Mesopotamia and its languages who wish to build further upon this. Language study is an essential component of the Assyriology MPhil; applicants who wish to study ancient Mesopotamia without the language should choose the MPhil in Archaeology, Mesopotamian archaeology option.This is a full-time, 11-month course (October – August), combining three taught modules with an independent research dissertation of 15,000 words.Available modules vary from year to year.  They usually include:It is also possible to choose one module from another MPhil programme in the Division of Archaeology, providing the opportunity to compare the specific Mesopotamian case study with, e.g., ancient Egypt, or to explore methodological and theoretical issues in the study of early societies.The course structure comprises:1. One module chosen from:2. A second module chosen from:3. A third module chosen from the list in (2) above, or a module from any other taught MPhil course offered in the Division of Archaeology, subject to the consent of the instructor and the Assyriology MPhil co-ordinator.4. Research Skills module5. An independent research dissertation of not more than 15,000 words.The modules may be assessed by written exams, essays (usually 3000-4000 words) or a combination of both. Many of the courses also include non-assessed presentations.G22 Akkadian language and texts: this module is for students with little or no previous knowledge of Akkadian.  Students learn the essential grammar and vocabulary of the language, both in its classic Old Babylonian form (as used in the lawcode of Hammurapi) and in the later literary language, "Standard Babylonian" (as used in the Epic of Gilgamesh). The grammar is covered in the first six weeks, after which teaching takes the form of text-reading classes.  See here for set texts from previous years.G23 Akkadian language and texts: this module is for students already familiar with Akkadian, and takes the form of text-reading classes. It is possible for students to have some say in the choice of set texts, which in the past have ranged across different genres, including letters, legal documents, divination and magical texts, and texts in Assyrian. See here for set texts from previous years.  In addition to a language exam, candidates for this module produce a hand-copy (scale drawing) of a specified cuneiform tablet, and a philological note.G21 Sumerian language and texts: this module is normally only available to students who already have a good knowledge of Akkadian.  The module provides an introduction to the grammar and vocabulary of the language through reading selected texts of the late 3rd and early 2nd millennia BC. See here for set texts from previous years.Mesopotamian culture (G24 and G25): These modules introduce the student to Mesopotamian literature, scholarship and thought. To make the course accessible to those starting the languages, it is built around translated texts and is concerned with their literary history, purpose and social context.G26 Mesopotamian Literature: concentrates on genres of texts traditionally recognized as "literary", including myths and epics, lamentations and wisdom literature. This includes major Akkadian compositions such as the Epic of Gilgamesh and the so-called Epic of Creation, but also a variety of Sumerian compositions.G27 Mesopotamian Religion and Scholarship: covers Mesopotamian thought in the broadest sense, including astronomy and astrology, divination, medicine and magic.Mesopotamian archaeology (G24 and 25): These modules provide a diachronic survey of Mesopotamian archaeology, with emphasis on themes and problems.G24 Archaeology of Mesopotamia I: Prehistory through early states focuses on the late Neolithic through the end of the 3rd millennium BC and addresses issues of urbanism and early states, development of religious institutions and economic bureaucracies, trade and the creation of value, funerary rituals, and the effect of climate change on settlement pattern.G25 Archaeology of Mesopotamia II: Territorial states through empires follows developments of the 2nd and 1st millennia BC, including growth of empires, elaboration of technology, diplomatic exchange and hybridization in art styles.G28 Topics in Mesopotamian history and archaeology: this module is designed to give students who are already familiar with Mesopotamian archaeology the opportunity for more in-depth study in current debates. The course is taught through seminars and directed reading, on subjects selected according to the students' knowledge and interests.Students write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Assyriology. The dissertation is an independent research project; the topic is decided in consultation with teaching staff and should be selected to match your own interests, abilities and previous experience.Applicants for the Assyriology MPhil will normally have undergraduate experience in archaeology, anthropology, classics, or ancient history, but other options are possible and specific knowledge of the ancient Near East is not a prerequisite.The official description in the University's course directory is available here.See also the graduate study funding page and the pages on Mesopotamia at Cambridge.We are always happy to hear from prospective applicants.  For further information, contact Dr Augusta McMahon, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The Cambridge MPhil in Assyriology is unique in the UK in our combination of the ancient languages, history, archaeology and culture of Mesopotamia. MPhil Assyriology students will join a lively community of Near Eastern scholars, including students on the MPhil in Mesopotamian Archaeology, PhD students, McDonald Institute post-doctoral scholars, and permanent members of teaching and research staff.The Assyriology MPhil is designed to be flexible in response to the needs of students with different academic backgrounds and interests. We aim to provide the student with a good knowledge of one or both of the principal languages of ancient Mesopotamia (Akkadian and Sumerian), combined with a detailed study of aspects of Mesopotamian archaeology and culture, from the later prehistoric periods (from 6000 BC) through the earliest literate and urban societies of the Near East to the Assyrian and Babylonian empires.The Assyriology MPhil may act as a self-contained course providing a good general introduction to Mesopotamia, or it may be a conversion course for those who plan to use Mesopotamian textual sources to undertake doctoral research. It is appropriate both for students with no previous knowledge of Mesopotamian languages or archaeology and for students with some knowledge of Mesopotamia and its languages who wish to build further upon this. Language study is an essential component of the Assyriology MPhil; applicants who wish to study ancient Mesopotamia without the language should choose the MPhil in Archaeology, Mesopotamian archaeology option.This is a full-time, 11-month course (October – August), combining three taught modules with an independent research dissertation of 15,000 words.Available modules vary from year to year.  They usually include:It is also possible to choose one module from another MPhil programme in the Division of Archaeology, providing the opportunity to compare the specific Mesopotamian case study with, e.g., ancient Egypt, or to explore methodological and theoretical issues in the study of early societies.The course structure comprises:1. One module chosen from:2. A second module chosen from:3. A third module chosen from the list in (2) above, or a module from any other taught MPhil course offered in the Division of Archaeology, subject to the consent of the instructor and the Assyriology MPhil co-ordinator.4. Research Skills module5. An independent research dissertation of not more than 15,000 words.The modules may be assessed by written exams, essays (usually 3000-4000 words) or a combination of both. Many of the courses also include non-assessed presentations.G22 Akkadian language and texts: this module is for students with little or no previous knowledge of Akkadian.  Students learn the essential grammar and vocabulary of the language, both in its classic Old Babylonian form (as used in the lawcode of Hammurapi) and in the later literary language, "Standard Babylonian" (as used in the Epic of Gilgamesh). The grammar is covered in the first six weeks, after which teaching takes the form of text-reading classes.  See here for set texts from previous years.G23 Akkadian language and texts: this module is for students already familiar with Akkadian, and takes the form of text-reading classes. It is possible for students to have some say in the choice of set texts, which in the past have ranged across different genres, including letters, legal documents, divination and magical texts, and texts in Assyrian. See here for set texts from previous years.  In addition to a language exam, candidates for this module produce a hand-copy (scale drawing) of a specified cuneiform tablet, and a philological note.G21 Sumerian language and texts: this module is normally only available to students who already have a good knowledge of Akkadian.  The module provides an introduction to the grammar and vocabulary of the language through reading selected texts of the late 3rd and early 2nd millennia BC. See here for set texts from previous years.Mesopotamian culture (G24 and G25): These modules introduce the student to Mesopotamian literature, scholarship and thought. To make the course accessible to those starting the languages, it is built around translated texts and is concerned with their literary history, purpose and social context.G26 Mesopotamian Literature: concentrates on genres of texts traditionally recognized as "literary", including myths and epics, lamentations and wisdom literature. This includes major Akkadian compositions such as the Epic of Gilgamesh and the so-called Epic of Creation, but also a variety of Sumerian compositions.G27 Mesopotamian Religion and Scholarship: covers Mesopotamian thought in the broadest sense, including astronomy and astrology, divination, medicine and magic.Mesopotamian archaeology (G24 and 25): These modules provide a diachronic survey of Mesopotamian archaeology, with emphasis on themes and problems.G24 Archaeology of Mesopotamia I: Prehistory through early states focuses on the late Neolithic through the end of the 3rd millennium BC and addresses issues of urbanism and early states, development of religious institutions and economic bureaucracies, trade and the creation of value, funerary rituals, and the effect of climate change on settlement pattern.G25 Archaeology of Mesopotamia II: Territorial states through empires follows developments of the 2nd and 1st millennia BC, including growth of empires, elaboration of technology, diplomatic exchange and hybridization in art styles.G28 Topics in Mesopotamian history and archaeology: this module is designed to give students who are already familiar with Mesopotamian archaeology the opportunity for more in-depth study in current debates. The course is taught through seminars and directed reading, on subjects selected according to the students' knowledge and interests.Students write a 15,000 word dissertation on a topic in Assyriology. The dissertation is an independent research project; the topic is decided in consultation with teaching staff and should be selected to match your own interests, abilities and previous experience.Applicants for the Assyriology MPhil will normally have undergraduate experience in archaeology, anthropology, classics, or ancient history, but other options are possible and specific knowledge of the ancient Near East is not a prerequisite.The official description in the University's course directory is available here.See also the graduate study funding page and the pages on Mesopotamia at Cambridge.We are always happy to hear from prospective applicants.  For further information, contact Dr Augusta McMahon, co-ordinator for this option.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe MPhil in Egyptology is a full-time one-year course, combining teaching on a range of topics with a short research dissertation. The topics are taken from the historical archaeology of ancient Egypt and study of its ancient languages, including Coptic and Demotic. Students may follow either an archaeologically or linguistically oriented pathway or combine elements of both.The course provides the student with a detailed knowledge of one or more aspects of the culture of ancient Egypt, with a focus on historical archaeology, landscape and built environment, material culture, art, and the language of one or more periods of Egypt's history. With the possibility of borrowing one module from the MPhil in Archaeology or MPhil in Assyriology programmes, the student will have the opportunity to place the specific Egyptian case in context, for example by comparing it with contemporary Mesopotamia, by learning methodologies for particular research projects, or by using it to address general and theoretical issues in the study of early societies and cultural heritage.This taught MPhil recruits students who are prepared for graduate work and wish to undertake research in the field of ancient Egypt, but who need further training in either the language(s) or the archaeology of the region. It is a demanding course which delivers competence in language and/or specialist knowledge of Egyptian history and culture over a relatively short time frame.The aims of the course are to:The MPhil in Egyptology is taught through lectures, seminars, museum-based practicals, and written work; the teaching methods vary according to the option chosen (see below). The common goal is to ensure that students acquire a base of knowledge particular to their option. For language papers this includes acquiring translation skills and practicing textual analysis and commentary. For archaeology papers this includes practice in reading critically, analysis, writing and presentation.Lectures are designed to cover major academic disciplines concerned with ancient Egypt: historical archaeology, religion and material culture including art architecture.Language classes teach Ancient Egyptian language at introductory and advanced levels, as well as Coptic and Demotic, with initial instruction in grammar followed by reading classes for which the students prepare prescribed texts appropriate to the level they have achieved.Seminars are designed to provide students with intensive engagement with academic staff across a wide range of subjects relevant to the courses selected. Individual subjects for each seminar are selected in the light of the interests of the students concerned and a reading list supplied. The seminars are designed to be interactive and preparation and participation in seminars is expected of all students.Supervisions with a regular supervisor are conducted on a one-to-one basis and give the student the opportunity to discuss general and specific issues in the conduct of the course. A supervisor, possibly, but not necessarily the same one, will also be appointed for the dissertation, to help with the choice of topic and monitor the progress of the student's research for the dissertation throughout the year. Supervisions provide the student with an opportunity to seek academic information and advice and they provide the forum to monitor a student's progress.Practical sessions in the Fitzwilliam Museum and Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology give students hands-on experience with Egyptian artefacts.The structure of the MPhil in Egyptology includes five elements:Modules are chosen to form a coherent programme of study allowing both breadth and specialisation. Of the three modules besides Research Skills, the first module can be any Egyptology language or archaeology option (all but the last module listed below); the same is true for the second module. The third module can be any module in Egyptian archaeology or culture (modules 5-8 below), but it can also be another MPhil option offered in the Division of Archaeology (module 9 below).This allows students to combine topic, area and method-oriented modules in a way tailored to their particular research interests; the student's choice of modules must be approved by the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator to ensure a coherent course of study.Prospective students are strongly advised to contact the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator Dr Kate Spence about choice of modules and research topic before putting in an application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe MPhil in Egyptology is a full-time one-year course, combining teaching on a range of topics with a short research dissertation. The topics are taken from the historical archaeology of ancient Egypt and study of its ancient languages, including Coptic and Demotic. Students may follow either an archaeologically or linguistically oriented pathway or combine elements of both.The course provides the student with a detailed knowledge of one or more aspects of the culture of ancient Egypt, with a focus on historical archaeology, landscape and built environment, material culture, art, and the language of one or more periods of Egypt's history. With the possibility of borrowing one module from the MPhil in Archaeology or MPhil in Assyriology programmes, the student will have the opportunity to place the specific Egyptian case in context, for example by comparing it with contemporary Mesopotamia, by learning methodologies for particular research projects, or by using it to address general and theoretical issues in the study of early societies and cultural heritage.This taught MPhil recruits students who are prepared for graduate work and wish to undertake research in the field of ancient Egypt, but who need further training in either the language(s) or the archaeology of the region. It is a demanding course which delivers competence in language and/or specialist knowledge of Egyptian history and culture over a relatively short time frame.The aims of the course are to:The MPhil in Egyptology is taught through lectures, seminars, museum-based practicals, and written work; the teaching methods vary according to the option chosen (see below). The common goal is to ensure that students acquire a base of knowledge particular to their option. For language papers this includes acquiring translation skills and practicing textual analysis and commentary. For archaeology papers this includes practice in reading critically, analysis, writing and presentation.Lectures are designed to cover major academic disciplines concerned with ancient Egypt: historical archaeology, religion and material culture including art architecture.Language classes teach Ancient Egyptian language at introductory and advanced levels, as well as Coptic and Demotic, with initial instruction in grammar followed by reading classes for which the students prepare prescribed texts appropriate to the level they have achieved.Seminars are designed to provide students with intensive engagement with academic staff across a wide range of subjects relevant to the courses selected. Individual subjects for each seminar are selected in the light of the interests of the students concerned and a reading list supplied. The seminars are designed to be interactive and preparation and participation in seminars is expected of all students.Supervisions with a regular supervisor are conducted on a one-to-one basis and give the student the opportunity to discuss general and specific issues in the conduct of the course. A supervisor, possibly, but not necessarily the same one, will also be appointed for the dissertation, to help with the choice of topic and monitor the progress of the student's research for the dissertation throughout the year. Supervisions provide the student with an opportunity to seek academic information and advice and they provide the forum to monitor a student's progress.Practical sessions in the Fitzwilliam Museum and Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology give students hands-on experience with Egyptian artefacts.The structure of the MPhil in Egyptology includes five elements:Modules are chosen to form a coherent programme of study allowing both breadth and specialisation. Of the three modules besides Research Skills, the first module can be any Egyptology language or archaeology option (all but the last module listed below); the same is true for the second module. The third module can be any module in Egyptian archaeology or culture (modules 5-8 below), but it can also be another MPhil option offered in the Division of Archaeology (module 9 below).This allows students to combine topic, area and method-oriented modules in a way tailored to their particular research interests; the student's choice of modules must be approved by the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator to ensure a coherent course of study.Prospective students are strongly advised to contact the MPhil in Egyptology coordinator Dr Kate Spence about choice of modules and research topic before putting in an application.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe Division of Archaeology offers students great flexibility in combining modules. Students may explore (for example), a region and a method, or choose a heritage emphasis. Students take three modules in a combination specific to their chosen MPhil option, as well as taking the Research Skills module (G01) and completing a dissertation.G04 Not all MPhil modules will be run every year and prospective students are advised to contact the Graduate Administrator to check that modules they wish to study will be available in the academic year they are applying for.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The Department of Archaeology offers an outstanding environment for independent research leading to the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).Our supervision expertise in archaeological topics ranges in time from the Palaeolithic to the modern day, and in space from the Americas to the UK and Europe, Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia and Australia. We also offer PhD supervision in archaeological theory, archaeological science, material culture studies and museum and heritage studies.Research in the languages, texts, history, and archaeology of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia is also housed in the Archaeology Division. Our facilities for supporting PhD research are excellent, and our graduate community is vibrant and stimulating. The Haddon Library is conveniently located within the main Archaeology building and houses a wide range of specialist archaeological and anthropological literature, journals, access to online catalogues and wireless internet access.We have laboratory facilities that support specific scientific research projects, including Geoarchaeology, Bioarchaeology, Archaeogenetics, Zooarchaeology, Isotopic Analysis and Material Culture.The Department of Archaeology hosts an official student society, the Archaeological Field Club, which runs a speaker series and organizes other events. Students in Archaeology publish their own academic journal—the Archaeological Review from Cambridge.The graduate community also organises subject-specific discussion groups, currently including the African Archaeology Group, Americas Seminar Group, Ancient Near East seminar series, Archaeology Theory Group, the Asian Archaeology Group, the Egyptian World Seminar Series, the George Pitt-Rivers laboratory Seminars, the Heritage Research Group, the Later European Prehistory Group, the Medieval Archaeology Group, the Palaeolithic-Mesolithic Discussion Group, and the Zooarchaeology Discussion Group. PhD students in the Department have a supervision team of two to three members of staff, who will have expertise in your proposed region, time period, method, and/or theoretical approach. During the first year, we provide training in research skills and appropriate research methods (e.g., GIS, lab skills, advanced languages).If you are interested in applying for admission as a PhD student in the Department of Archaeology at the University of Cambridge, you should look through the links on this page for information about the application process, funding opportunities, and our research and the people who comprise the Department. You are strongly encouraged to email your potential supervisor(s) about your research topic before applying. The PhD is a three-year degree, so it is important that applicants have a well-developed project at the point of application. General queries about the PhD programmes should be addressed to the Department's Graduate Secretary and further details of the programme can be found in the Graduate Admissions Course Directory.To apply for admission to PhD research in the Archaeology Department, you should visit the Graduate Admissions Office website and consult the information on the application procedure found in the Online Graduate Studies Prospectus.Applicants for this course should have achieved a UK Masters (Merit) or the equivalent.If your degree is not from the UK, please check International Qualifications to find the equivalent in your country.All applicants for the PhD will be contacted to arrange a brief interview prior to any offer of a place being made; this interview may be by telephone or Skype.Current MPhil students in Assyriology or Egyptology at the University of Cambridge wishing to continue to the PhD with an ancient language-based research topic must achieve a Merit in relevant language exams (as well as a Merit in the MPhil course) in order to be permitted to continue. Admission for the PhD is not automatic on achieving a Merit; other factors, including the availability of appropriate supervision, are taken into consideration.Suggestions for successful graduate applications Information about funding available to Graduate Students can be found on the 'Funding for Graduate Students' page. The Division of Archaeology offers a number of AHRC Doctoral Awards each year. In archaeological science topics, the Archaeology Department may be able to offer several studentships through its participation in the Cambridge Earth Systems Science NERC Doctoral Training Programme.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge The Department of Archaeology offers an outstanding environment for independent research leading to the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).Our supervision expertise in archaeological topics ranges in time from the Palaeolithic to the modern day, and in space from the Americas to the UK and Europe, Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia and Australia. We also offer PhD supervision in archaeological theory, archaeological science, material culture studies and museum and heritage studies.Research in the languages, texts, history, and archaeology of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia is also housed in the Archaeology Division. Our facilities for supporting PhD research are excellent, and our graduate community is vibrant and stimulating. The Haddon Library is conveniently located within the main Archaeology building and houses a wide range of specialist archaeological and anthropological literature, journals, access to online catalogues and wireless internet access.We have laboratory facilities that support specific scientific research projects, including Geoarchaeology, Bioarchaeology, Archaeogenetics, Zooarchaeology, Isotopic Analysis and Material Culture.The Department of Archaeology hosts an official student society, the Archaeological Field Club, which runs a speaker series and organizes other events. Students in Archaeology publish their own academic journal—the Archaeological Review from Cambridge.The graduate community also organises subject-specific discussion groups, currently including the African Archaeology Group, Americas Seminar Group, Ancient Near East seminar series, Archaeology Theory Group, the Asian Archaeology Group, the Egyptian World Seminar Series, the George Pitt-Rivers laboratory Seminars, the Heritage Research Group, the Later European Prehistory Group, the Medieval Archaeology Group, the Palaeolithic-Mesolithic Discussion Group, and the Zooarchaeology Discussion Group. PhD students in the Department have a supervision team of two to three members of staff, who will have expertise in your proposed region, time period, method, and/or theoretical approach. During the first year, we provide training in research skills and appropriate research methods (e.g., GIS, lab skills, advanced languages).If you are interested in applying for admission as a PhD student in the Department of Archaeology at the University of Cambridge, you should look through the links on this page for information about the application process, funding opportunities, and our research and the people who comprise the Department. You are strongly encouraged to email your potential supervisor(s) about your research topic before applying. The PhD is a three-year degree, so it is important that applicants have a well-developed project at the point of application. General queries about the PhD programmes should be addressed to the Department's Graduate Secretary and further details of the programme can be found in the Graduate Admissions Course Directory.To apply for admission to PhD research in the Archaeology Department, you should visit the Graduate Admissions Office website and consult the information on the application procedure found in the Online Graduate Studies Prospectus.Applicants for this course should have achieved a UK Masters (Merit) or the equivalent.If your degree is not from the UK, please check International Qualifications to find the equivalent in your country.All applicants for the PhD will be contacted to arrange a brief interview prior to any offer of a place being made; this interview may be by telephone or Skype.Current MPhil students in Assyriology or Egyptology at the University of Cambridge wishing to continue to the PhD with an ancient language-based research topic must achieve a Merit in relevant language exams (as well as a Merit in the MPhil course) in order to be permitted to continue. Admission for the PhD is not automatic on achieving a Merit; other factors, including the availability of appropriate supervision, are taken into consideration.Suggestions for successful graduate applications Information about funding available to Graduate Students can be found on the 'Funding for Graduate Students' page. The Division of Archaeology offers a number of AHRC Doctoral Awards each year. In archaeological science topics, the Archaeology Department may be able to offer several studentships through its participation in the Cambridge Earth Systems Science NERC Doctoral Training Programme.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Financial SupportThere are various sources of financial support available to help towards your costs at Cambridge. These fall into two broad categories: Government financial support and Cambridge financial support. Some support is available to all UK/EU students, while eligibility for other funding may depend on your financial circumstances.Further information on Undergraduate fees and finance can be found on the Undergraduate Study pages of the University of Cambridge website. College SupportIn addition to the financial support available to all UK students, there are also possibilities for applying for generous means tested bursaries from colleges. Most colleges have travel grants available to archaeology undergraduate students which can applied for through the college Director of Studies / Tutorial Office. Other Funds and AwardsUndergraduate students can use CamFund - the Cambridge University Funding Search tool to locate funding in the disciplinehttp://webservices.admin.cam.ac.uk/camfunds/gfinder.jsp © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Financial SupportThere are various sources of financial support available to help towards your costs at Cambridge. These fall into two broad categories: Government financial support and Cambridge financial support. Some support is available to all UK/EU students, while eligibility for other funding may depend on your financial circumstances.Further information on Undergraduate fees and finance can be found on the Undergraduate Study pages of the University of Cambridge website. College SupportIn addition to the financial support available to all UK students, there are also possibilities for applying for generous means tested bursaries from colleges. Most colleges have travel grants available to archaeology undergraduate students which can applied for through the college Director of Studies / Tutorial Office. Other Funds and AwardsUndergraduate students can use CamFund - the Cambridge University Funding Search tool to locate funding in the disciplinehttp://webservices.admin.cam.ac.uk/camfunds/gfinder.jsp © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge  Archaeology is the study of the human past, in all its social and cultural diversity. At Cambridge it is an outstandingly broad and exciting subject, equally rewarding for those who feel at home in the sciences, the humanities, or both.  Our undergraduate degree encompasses multiple tracks: Archaeology, Biological Anthropology, Assyriology and Egyptology. You can specialise in your chosen track already in Year 1, or combine them in Year 1 and specialise from Year 2. See course structure for further details.Our courses range in time from the Palaeolithic to the modern day and cover the Americas, the UK and Europe, Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia and Australia. We also offer courses on archaeological theory and practice, archaeological science, and museum and heritage studies. Over the course of your studies, you might find yourself analysing deformations in medieval skulls; translating Egyptian hieroglyphs; reconstructing past landscapes; learning about radio-carbon dating; studying imagery in a Babylonian poem; or debating the politics of cultural heritage. You will gain insights into many of the most important challenges for human life on earth in the present day, from climate change to social structures, to diet and sustainability, to economic inequality.  You will have engaged in the detailed study of primary sources, you may have studied an ancient language, and you will probably have written your first piece of independent research (in the form of a 10,000 word dissertation).Whatever interests you pursue and develop, our degree will refine your existing skills and build new ones, making you an informed and intelligent analyst of past societies and cultures, as well as a critical thinker, and an articulate presenter and writer of your ideas. These are skills highly valued by employers, opening the way to many careers as a graduate.Our teaching combines lectures, seminars, practical work, language classes, and lab experience. Fieldwork experience, for which departmental subsidies are available, is a vital element of the Archaeology course, and there are many opportunities for students to join department-based research projects.The Archaeology Field Club is an established student society within the Department and students also publish their own academic journal, the Archaeological Review from Cambridge. © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge If you are interested in finding out more about our full calendar of Open Days and Outreach events, please join our Outreach mailing list. You can also contact us at outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk.  Interested in learning more about what Archaeology at Cambridge has to offer? Please come and join us at the Department of Archaeology, University of Cambridge on Thursday, 22 February, 2018.You will have the opportunity to learn about the various subject tracks offered as part of our undergraduate course: Archaeology, Assyriology, Egyptology and Biological Anthropology. You'll also tour our state-of-the-art laboratories, get hands-on at the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology and the Centre for Human Evolutionary Studies, have a chance to chat with lecturers and current undergraduate students and learn about the Cambridge college system and admissions.Current Year 12 students, mature students, parents/carers and teachers are more than welcome.The event is free to attend, but booking is required. The purpose of this one-day conference is to give sixth formers an opportunity to explore what it is like to study Egypt and Mesopotamia at British Universities: to see what makes the subject area so intellectually and culturally exciting, learn about the various degree courses, and understand what admissions tutors are looking for.The programme will include talks about careers, information on admissions, and the opportunity to meet current students and academic staff from many of the institutions in the UK that teach these subjects. There will also be gallery tours (led by current staff and students) and sample lectures.Find out more here: Annual Egypt and Mesopotamia Conference for Sixth Formers  These conferences are designed to provide up-to-date information on the application and admissions procedure at both institutions as well as providing an insight into student life. The events are aimed at students who have already completed their GCSE examinations (or equivalent) and are now undertaking further study.*Planning for the 2018 Conferences is underway and bookings will open in January 2018.*Find out more here: https://www.oxfordandcambridgeoutreach.co.uk/student-conference/introductionHosted by St John's College, Science in Archaeology Day will give prospective undergraduate students an opportunity to see how archaeologists and biological anthropologists use science to uncover human past. Featuring presentations and hands-on activities on major methods and themes such as:This event is free, but booking is required.  The University of Cambridge and its Colleges will be opening their doors for the Cambridge Open Days on Thursday 5 July and Friday 6 July 2018.These large-scale events are for Year 12 students (or equivalent) and mature students (aged 21 or over) who are considering making an application in October 2018 for entry in October 2019 (or deferred entry in October 2020).Attendees will be able to find out what the University and Colleges have to offer through presentations on courses, the application process, student life, and finance. They’ll also have the opportunity to talk to undergraduate students and staff from the Colleges and academic departments.All undergraduate Colleges and courses will be represented as part of the Cambridge Open Days.Find out more here: https://www.undergraduate.study.cam.ac.uk/events/cambridge-open-days London Anthropology Day (LAD) is a FREE annual university taster day for Year 12, 13, FE students, careers advisers and teachers. The event is held at the British Museum‘s Education Clore Centre. On the day, participants get to learn what anthropology is about, the types of careers anthropologists do, and gain hands-on experience of what it is like to study the subject at university. Lecturers from universities across Britain provide interactive workshops on biological and social anthropology. Students are able to learn about the various specialisations of participating universities, explore the museum’s ethnographic galleries and interact with volunteers who are currently studying anthropology.Find out more here: https://londonanthropologyday.co.uk/         The Cambridge Sutton Trust Summer Schools are week-long, subject-specific residentials, where you live and study as a Cambridge student. You’ll stay in your own private student room within a Cambridge College, eat with other Summer School students in the canteens and socialise in the common rooms.During the day, you’ll be in your academic department, where you’ll be taught by world-leading experts in your subject. They’ll guide you through new areas of study, introducing you to the depth and breadth of a Cambridge undergraduate course. The subject timetables are varied: you might undertake your own research project, participate in seminars, laboratory sessions or fieldwork, go behind-the-scenes at museums or test out Cambridge’s supervisions (specialised, small-group teaching).But it’s not all work. After you leave the departments, you’ll have time to explore Cambridge with your Summer School friends, and we’ll put on a host of activities for you. You’ll get to go on a chauffeured punt tour of the River Cam, take part in a range of sports and societies, and enjoy a ‘Formal Hall’ celebratory dinner and party on the final night.By the end of the week, we hope that you’ll leave inspired by your subject, with new knowledge and skills which will stand you in good stead for your final year of school. We hope, too, that you’ll be able to make an informed decision about what you want to do next, whatever subject, university or route you’re considering.*Bookings open January 2018*For further information about the Sutton Trust Summer School programme, including eligibility requirements and application details please see: https://summerschools.suttontrust.com/ If you are interested in finding out more about our full calendar of Open Days and Outreach events, please join our Outreach mailing list. You can also contact us at outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk. For the Open Days of individual Colleges see here.   
© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeStudying Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia at University: A Conference for Sixth-Formers at the British Museum Studying Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia at University A Conference for Sixth-FormersThe British Museum, London, Thursday May 5th 2016Bookings are now closed. Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern Iraq; ancient Sumer, Assyria and Babylon) bequeathed to posterity some of the most fascinating remains from all of the ancient world.  Today it is possible to learn the languages, study the artefacts, and reconstruct the most varied aspects of these ancient civilisations in astonishing detail.  But since these subjects are not offered at A level, few sixth-formers are aware that they exist as University subjects; indeed, many A level students might never have had the opportunity to learn about these cultures.  The purpose of this one-day conference is to give sixth formers an opportunity to explore what it is like to study Egypt and Mesopotamia at British Universities: to see what makes the subject area so intellectually and culturally exciting, learn about the various degree courses, and understand what admissions tutors are looking for.The programme will include talks about careers, information on admissions, and the opportunity to meet current students and academic staff from many of the institutions in the UK that teach these subjects. There will also be gallery tours (led by current staff and students), talks by British Museum curators, and sample lectures.          Teachers are welcome to bring groups, but individual students are equally welcome. This is, in essence, a nation-wide Open Day for the subject area at large.Attendance is free.  Bookings for this event are now closed.The event is organised by the Division of Archaeology, University of Cambridge, in partnership with the British Museum. Address any queries to: Dr Martin Worthington (mjw65@cam.ac.uk).  Travel bursariesApplications for travel bursaries are now closed.Thanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor and the Thriplow Charitable Trust, we are able to offer c. 15 travel bursaries of up to c. 50 pounds each, to enable sixth formers at state schools to attend the Conference.  The bursaries are administered by the Division of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge.  To apply, 1) write to outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk by 15th April 2016, stating where you will be travelling from, by which means of transport, and the estimated cost; also include (in the text of the email or as a PDF attachment) a 250-word statement on your interest in the subject area (it may include illustrations, but need not); 2) ask a teacher or equivalent (e.g. a museum curator; not a parent) to send a reference which comments on your academic ability and enthusiasm to the same email address, by the same deadline.Applicants will be notified of the outcome shortly after 15th April.  Bursaries will normally be payable on the day itself, in person.  If this creates problems, please let us know when you apply. ProgrammeThe main venue will be the Stevenson lecture theatre in the British Museum.  Please aim to be seated by 10.20.Subject to small adjustments, the programme is as follows.10.25-10.30Martin Worthington and Hratch Papazian (Cambridge)General introduction10.30-10.45Dan Lawrence (Durham)Satellites and Cities in Near Eastern Archaeology10.45-11.00Alice Stevenson (Petrie Museum, UCL)Before the Pyramids: the origins of the ancient Egyptian state11.00-11.15Paul Nicholson (Cardiff)The Catacombs of Anubis at North Saqqara11.15-11.30Selena Wisnom (Oxford)Will Trump take the kingship? Asking the entrails11.30-11.35break11.35-11.50Irving Finkel (British Museum)The Wonder of Cuneiform11.50-12.05Michelle Middleman (Liverpool)Finding Reality in Old Kingdom Tomb Biographies12.05-12.20Kate Spence (Cambridge)Egypt in Nubia: cultures in collision12.20-12.35Martin Worthington (Cambridge)The rain, the wheat, and the trick12.35-13.00lunch (bring your own sandwiches, there will not be time to buy them!)13.00-13.15Yaǧmur Heffron (UCL)Archaeological Excavation: the Filthy Past13.15-13.30Gemma Wood (Swansea)“The Lady of Slaughter” and the Egyptian calendar13.30-13.45Richard Parkinson (Oxford)The archaeology of the heart: Reading Ancient Egyptian texts13.45-14.00Andrew George (SOAS)Be my baby in Babylonia14.00-14.25careers 14.25-14.30vacate lecture theatre14.30-15.00gallery tours (in small groups, led by University staff and/or students)15.00-15.30treasure hunt (in small groups or individually)15.30-16.00gallery tours (in small groups, led by University staff and/or students) Relevant University Open DaysFor those who cannot come to the British Museum on May 5th, here are the dates of relevant Open Days and other events:30th April: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford17th-18th June: Pre-Application Open Days, Department of History, University College London (the Dept offers several courses on Ancient Near Eastern History)24th-25th June: Liverpool University Open Day29th-30th June: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford30th June - 1st July: you can meet Egyptology and Assyriology teaching staff at the Cambridge University Open Day (booking not required).  Contact person: Martin Worthington.1st July: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson.4th-7th July: UCL Ancient World Summer School (includes Egypt and Mesopotamia).17th-30th July: Summer School in Ancient Languages, University of Swansea (includes Hieroglyphs)25th-28th July - St John's College, Cambridge, Archaeology Summer School.  This will be a residential event, which will include excavation training, sample lectures, and interview workshops.  Attendance is completely free, and there are a limited number of travel bursaries for participants from state schools.  There will be a substantial component on Egypt and Mesopotamia (which are "tracks" one can specialise in within the Cambridge Archaeology degree).31st August: deadline for submitting to the Gilgamesh21 project.9th September: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson.10th September: Pre-Application Open Days, Department of History, University College London (the Dept offers several courses on Ancient Near Eastern History); Contact person: Chris Allen.16th September: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford24th September: Liverpool University Open Day30th September: deadline for the Gerald Averay Wainwright Essay Prize - contact by email.8th October: Liverpool University Open Day22nd October: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson. LinksRecordings of modern scholars reading Babylonian and Assyrian poetry.Manchester's free online taster courses in Egyptology.The Gilgamesh21 project (deadline: 31st August)Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, Ancient World Essay Competition© 2017 University of CambridgeRavenRaven
	    An error occurred while processing your request. Note:
        
           If this problem persists then please contact the UIS Service Desk
           (service-desk@uis.cam.ac.uk). Please 
           quote the date and time this error occured and any error message apearing below.
        The Raven web authentication system is provided and managed by University Information Services.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridgehttp://tinyurl.com/EgMesConfBOOK HERE: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/studying-ancient-egypt-and-mesopotamia-at-university-tickets-38619481910The Judgment of Ani Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern Iraq; ancient Sumer, Assyria and Babylon) bequeathed to posterity some of the most fascinating remains from all of the ancient world.  Today it is possible to learn the languages, study the artefacts, and reconstruct the most varied aspects of these ancient civilisations in astonishing detail.But since these subjects are not offered at A level, few sixth-formers are aware that they exist as University subjects; indeed, many A level students might never have had the opportunity to learn about these cultures.The purpose of this one-day conference is to give sixth formers an opportunity to explore what it is like to study Egypt and Mesopotamia at British Universities: to see what makes the subject area so intellectually and culturally exciting, learn about the various degree courses, and understand what admissions tutors are looking for.The programme will include talks about careers, information on admissions, and the opportunity to meet current students and academic staff from many of the institutions in the UK that teach these subjects, including: Cambridge, Oxford, UCL, Reading, Liverpool, Cardiff, SOAS, UEA and KCL. Representatives of the Egypt Exploration Society will also be on hand. There will also be gallery tours (led by current staff and students) and sample lectures. BOOK HERE: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/studying-ancient-egypt-and-mesopotamia-at-university-tickets-38619481910       The British Museum, Entrance to Gallery 9Teachers are welcome to bring groups, but individual students and teachers are equally welcome. This is, in essence, a nation-wide Open Day for the subject area at large.*Attendance is free.The event is organised by the Department of Archaeology, University of Cambridge, in partnership with the Royal Asiatic Society and the British Museum. It is sponsored by the London Centre for the Ancient Near East.  Address any queries to: Dr Selena Wisnom or Laure Bonner The "Cyrus Cylinder" Travel bursariesThanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor and the Thriplow Charitable Trust, we are able offer travel bursaries in certain instances to enable sixth formers at state schools to attend the conference.The bursaries are administered by the Department of Archaeology, University of Cambridge. To apply, 1) write to outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk by the specified deadline, stating where you will be travelling from, by which means of transport, and the estimated cost; also include (in the text of the email or as a PDF attachment) a 250-word statement on your interest in the subject area (it may include illustrations, but need not); 2) ask a teacher or equivalent (e.g. a museum curator; not a parent) to send a reference which comments on your academic ability and enthusiasm to the same email address, by the same deadline.Applicants will be notified of the outcome shortly after 15th February, 2018. Bursaries will normally be payable on the day itself, in person. If this creates problems, please let us know when you apply. ProgrammeDownload provisional programme here: Programme of EventsNote - the event starts and ends in different places (the Royal Asiatic Society, which is near Euston station, and the British Museum, which is a 15 min. walk away)  SponsorsWe gratefully acknowledge financial support from the Egypt Exploration Society. Future editionsThis is the 3rd Annual Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia Conference for 6th formers. We are hopeful it will become an annual fixture.  If you would like to be kept up to date for next year, please sign up to the Cambridge Archaeology Outreach Mailing List. Relevant University Open DaysRelevant university Open Days will be posted here in due course.University of Cambridge: Department of Archaeology Outreach EventsUniversity of Reading: http://www.reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/visiting-and-open-days/opendays.aspx  Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, Ancient World Essay CompetitionThe Gerald Avery Wainwright digital poster competition, run by Oxford University.Recordings of modern scholars reading Babylonian and Assyrian poetry.Sven Moons' survey of British museums which include Egyptian artefacts.Manchester's free online taster courses in Egyptology.Liverpool, Superpowers of the Ancient World Free Online CourseReading, Course informationEgypt and Mesopotamia at University : A Conference for 6th Formers held at the British Museum, 5 May 2016Egypt and Mesopotamia at University : A Conference for 6th Formers held at the Royal Asiatic Society, 4 March 2017 © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeStudying Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia at University: A Conference for Sixth-Formers at the British Museum Studying Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia at University A Conference for Sixth-FormersThe British Museum, London, Thursday May 5th 2016Bookings are now closed. Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern Iraq; ancient Sumer, Assyria and Babylon) bequeathed to posterity some of the most fascinating remains from all of the ancient world.  Today it is possible to learn the languages, study the artefacts, and reconstruct the most varied aspects of these ancient civilisations in astonishing detail.  But since these subjects are not offered at A level, few sixth-formers are aware that they exist as University subjects; indeed, many A level students might never have had the opportunity to learn about these cultures.  The purpose of this one-day conference is to give sixth formers an opportunity to explore what it is like to study Egypt and Mesopotamia at British Universities: to see what makes the subject area so intellectually and culturally exciting, learn about the various degree courses, and understand what admissions tutors are looking for.The programme will include talks about careers, information on admissions, and the opportunity to meet current students and academic staff from many of the institutions in the UK that teach these subjects. There will also be gallery tours (led by current staff and students), talks by British Museum curators, and sample lectures.          Teachers are welcome to bring groups, but individual students are equally welcome. This is, in essence, a nation-wide Open Day for the subject area at large.Attendance is free.  Bookings for this event are now closed.The event is organised by the Division of Archaeology, University of Cambridge, in partnership with the British Museum. Address any queries to: Dr Martin Worthington (mjw65@cam.ac.uk).  Travel bursariesApplications for travel bursaries are now closed.Thanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor and the Thriplow Charitable Trust, we are able to offer c. 15 travel bursaries of up to c. 50 pounds each, to enable sixth formers at state schools to attend the Conference.  The bursaries are administered by the Division of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge.  To apply, 1) write to outreach@arch.cam.ac.uk by 15th April 2016, stating where you will be travelling from, by which means of transport, and the estimated cost; also include (in the text of the email or as a PDF attachment) a 250-word statement on your interest in the subject area (it may include illustrations, but need not); 2) ask a teacher or equivalent (e.g. a museum curator; not a parent) to send a reference which comments on your academic ability and enthusiasm to the same email address, by the same deadline.Applicants will be notified of the outcome shortly after 15th April.  Bursaries will normally be payable on the day itself, in person.  If this creates problems, please let us know when you apply. ProgrammeThe main venue will be the Stevenson lecture theatre in the British Museum.  Please aim to be seated by 10.20.Subject to small adjustments, the programme is as follows.10.25-10.30Martin Worthington and Hratch Papazian (Cambridge)General introduction10.30-10.45Dan Lawrence (Durham)Satellites and Cities in Near Eastern Archaeology10.45-11.00Alice Stevenson (Petrie Museum, UCL)Before the Pyramids: the origins of the ancient Egyptian state11.00-11.15Paul Nicholson (Cardiff)The Catacombs of Anubis at North Saqqara11.15-11.30Selena Wisnom (Oxford)Will Trump take the kingship? Asking the entrails11.30-11.35break11.35-11.50Irving Finkel (British Museum)The Wonder of Cuneiform11.50-12.05Michelle Middleman (Liverpool)Finding Reality in Old Kingdom Tomb Biographies12.05-12.20Kate Spence (Cambridge)Egypt in Nubia: cultures in collision12.20-12.35Martin Worthington (Cambridge)The rain, the wheat, and the trick12.35-13.00lunch (bring your own sandwiches, there will not be time to buy them!)13.00-13.15Yaǧmur Heffron (UCL)Archaeological Excavation: the Filthy Past13.15-13.30Gemma Wood (Swansea)“The Lady of Slaughter” and the Egyptian calendar13.30-13.45Richard Parkinson (Oxford)The archaeology of the heart: Reading Ancient Egyptian texts13.45-14.00Andrew George (SOAS)Be my baby in Babylonia14.00-14.25careers 14.25-14.30vacate lecture theatre14.30-15.00gallery tours (in small groups, led by University staff and/or students)15.00-15.30treasure hunt (in small groups or individually)15.30-16.00gallery tours (in small groups, led by University staff and/or students) Relevant University Open DaysFor those who cannot come to the British Museum on May 5th, here are the dates of relevant Open Days and other events:30th April: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford17th-18th June: Pre-Application Open Days, Department of History, University College London (the Dept offers several courses on Ancient Near Eastern History)24th-25th June: Liverpool University Open Day29th-30th June: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford30th June - 1st July: you can meet Egyptology and Assyriology teaching staff at the Cambridge University Open Day (booking not required).  Contact person: Martin Worthington.1st July: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson.4th-7th July: UCL Ancient World Summer School (includes Egypt and Mesopotamia).17th-30th July: Summer School in Ancient Languages, University of Swansea (includes Hieroglyphs)25th-28th July - St John's College, Cambridge, Archaeology Summer School.  This will be a residential event, which will include excavation training, sample lectures, and interview workshops.  Attendance is completely free, and there are a limited number of travel bursaries for participants from state schools.  There will be a substantial component on Egypt and Mesopotamia (which are "tracks" one can specialise in within the Cambridge Archaeology degree).31st August: deadline for submitting to the Gilgamesh21 project.9th September: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson.10th September: Pre-Application Open Days, Department of History, University College London (the Dept offers several courses on Ancient Near Eastern History); Contact person: Chris Allen.16th September: Oriental Studies Faculty Open Day, University of Oxford24th September: Liverpool University Open Day30th September: deadline for the Gerald Averay Wainwright Essay Prize - contact by email.8th October: Liverpool University Open Day22nd October: Cardiff University Open Day.  Contact person for Egyptian Archaeology: Paul Nicholson. LinksRecordings of modern scholars reading Babylonian and Assyrian poetry.Manchester's free online taster courses in Egyptology.The Gilgamesh21 project (deadline: 31st August)Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, Ancient World Essay Competition© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeBooking now closedThe Judgment of Ani Egypt and Mesopotamia (modern Iraq; ancient Sumer, Assyria and Babylon) bequeathed to posterity some of the most fascinating remains from all of the ancient world.  Today it is possible to learn the languages, study the artefacts, and reconstruct the most varied aspects of these ancient civilisations in astonishing detail.But since these subjects are not offered at A level, few sixth-formers are aware that they exist as University subjects; indeed, many A level students might never have had the opportunity to learn about these cultures.The purpose of this one-day conference is to give sixth formers an opportunity to explore what it is like to study Egypt and Mesopotamia at British Universities: to see what makes the subject area so intellectually and culturally exciting, learn about the various degree courses, and understand what admissions tutors are looking for.The programme will include talks about careers, information on admissions, and the opportunity to meet current students and academic staff from many of the institutions in the UK that teach these subjects, including: Cambridge, Oxford, UCL, Liverpool, Durham, Birmingham, Cardiff, Reading and Swansea. There will also be gallery tours (led by current staff and students) and sample lectures.       The British Museum, Entrance to Gallery 9Teachers are welcome to bring groups, but individual students and teachers are equally welcome. This is, in essence, a nation-wide Open Day for the subject area at large.*Attendance is free.The event is organised by the Division of Archaeology, University of Cambridge, in partnership with the Royal Asiatic Society and the British Museum. It is sponsored by the London Centre for the Ancient Near East.  Address any queries to: Dr Martin Worthington (mjw65@cam.ac.uk). The "Cyrus Cylinder" Travel bursariesThe deadline for applying for travel bursaries (11th February) has expired, but we are still prepared to consider applications from students at state schools on a first-come, first-served basis.  Applicants should write to mjw65@cam.ac.uk. ProgrammeDownload provisional programme here: Programme of EventsNote - the event starts and ends in different places (the Royal Asiatic Society, which is near Euston station, and the British Museum, which is a 15 min. walk away)  Future editionsThis is the second time the conference is being run, and we are hopeful it will become an annual fixture.  If you would like to be kept up to date for next year, please sign up to the Cambridge Archaeology Outreach Mailing List. Relevant University Open DaysFor those who cannot come to London on March 4th, here are the dates of relevant Open Days and other events:Cambridge:Egypt and Mesopotamia are represented at Open Days and other events run by the Division of Archaeology.  Contact person: Martin Worthington.Cardiff:2017 Open Dayshttp://www.cardiff.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/open-days-visitsLiverpool:2017 Open Dayshttps://www.liverpool.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/Virtual Open Dayhttps://www.liverpool.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/open-days-and-visits/virtual-open-day/Oxford:2017 Open Dayshttp://www.orinst.ox.ac.uk/undergraduate/admissions.htmlCourse information:http://www.orinst.ox.ac.uk/eanes/undergrad.htmlReading:2017 Open Dayshttps://www.reading.ac.uk/ready-to-study/visiting-and-open-days/opendays.aspxSwansea:2017 Open Days: 17th June, 14th October, 28th October.  Contact person for Egyptology: Evelien Bracke.UCL:2017 Open Days: Friday 30th June, Saturday 1st July, Saturday 9th September.  Contact person for Egyptology: Alice Stevenson. Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, Ancient World Essay CompetitionGirton College, Cambridge, Humanities Writing CompetitionOxford University, Wainwright Digital Poster Competition.Recordings of modern scholars reading Babylonian and Assyrian poetry.Sven Moons' survey of British museums which include Egyptian artefacts.Manchester's free online taster courses in Egyptology.Liverpool, Superpowers of the Ancient World Free Online CourseReading, Course informationEgypt and Mesopotamia at University : A Conference for 6th Formers held at the British Museum, 5 May 2016 © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe intellectual versatility and transferable skills that the course will foster are highly prized by employers in many fields, and indeed Archaeology has one of the highest employment rates across all subjects in the University.  While about half of graduates go on to archaeological careers or postgraduate study, many go on to careers in sectors as varied as media, commerce, diplomacy, advertising, museums, conservation and health.See what some of our graduates said:  "My degree gave me a solid foundation in archaeological knowledge, thought and theory. But the research, time management and writing skill sets I gained along the way are in some ways more valuable in post-graduation life, and have already helped me in producing several commercial archaeological reports as part of my current job. I’m still inspired by the academics and time I had at Cambridge to really explore and investigate a topic - Neolithic archaeology, from the enigmatic time when farming began, is a fascinating challenge to try and untangle. The teaching system at Cambridge is based on individual or small group supervisions, in which you discuss a particular topic and your work with an academic. Gaining confidence at explaining, summarising and discussing ideas through supervisions has been extremely valuable to me during job interviews. Alongside my degree, I also gained a lot of organisation skills and experience through running a large society event and setting up an online access project that is aimed at helping prospective Cambridge applicants. Being involved in college and university-level access work has helped me work towards being involved in outreach and community work and started to equip me with the skill set to do so."Nina O'Hare, BA 2015, Worcestershire County Council Read more about Nina's story here: http://www.cam.ac.uk/news/graduate-get-a-job-make-a-difference-5 “My Cambridge degree in archaeology provided me with the very best foundation from which to go on to further study in archaeology. Since leaving Cambridge I have completed a master’s degree at University College London and am in the final stages of completing a PhD at Newcastle University. I have also worked as an archaeological field officer and a site supervisor on excavations, excavated in Peru and spoken at conferences in places as diverse as Hawaii and Portugal. My undergraduate degree in archaeology pushed me to think about the world in different ways. It demanded that I learn to be analytical, to consider multiple sources of evidence and to balance varying viewpoints. It also forced me to work hard. These things have all made the transition to master’s and PhD level research easier. The vast scope of archaeology covered at Cambridge, paired with the depth of expertise, allowed me to gain a wide general knowledge as well as very detailed engagement with the things that interested me most. The supervision system gives you the best possible opportunity to develop as an archaeologist and a thinker. The chance to sit with a real expert and talk about the reading you have done, your ideas and your writing every week gives you an awesome advantage for further study and encourages you to think originally and follow your ideas through.As part of my undergraduate degree I completed original research which gave me an excellent foundation from which to keep researching. I was taught how to frame questions, how to work with data and how to best present results. The access to resources and books at Cambridge is brilliant and you get to learn from real leaders in the field. I made excellent contacts and friends at Cambridge who have gone on to be important and help my career thus far.”Rachell Crellin, BA 2009. PhD Candidate, University of Newcastle “Working for the Royal Academy of Dance may not be a typical career path for an archaeology graduate, but my degree has definitely helped me get there. Studying archaeology made me fundamentally aware of the arts and heritage sector, particularly in terms of policy and politics, giving me a strong foothold for a career in this area. Archaeology also trained me to assess arguments and weigh up different points of view to form my own opinions. I had the opportunity to conduct research, to explore ideas and to debate, skills that I use on a daily basis. An archaeology degree gave me the opportunity to learn, travel and explore the world both past and present. I may not spend my days with a trowel, but studying archaeology paved the way to my present career.”Hannah Merron, BA 2009, London Academy of Dance  “Archaeology and museums go hand in hand. However, there is more to museum work than simply curating the collections excavated by our predecessors. I am responsible for organising the movement of collections. This means I can be installing an art work in the city gallery one day and digging through stores at the industrial museum the next. I even get the occasional jaunt abroad to baby sit travelling collections. Whilst the 'real' archaeology I deal with regularly is limited to the accession of an odd excavated spur fragment, I constantly use the skills and knowledge I gained during my degree studies. An essential part of my job is ensuring that the museum engages in ethical practice. My knowledge of social theory, interpretation and reasoning skills all help out here. Museums need archaeologists, not just in the curatorial roles, but because they truly understand the need and purpose of museums and their collections. And what do you get out of it? Not the money, obviously, but an exciting, vibrant work environment and a daily work-load that is never the same twice.”Cassia Pennington, BA 2009, trainee museum registrar, Royal Armouries Museum and Leeds Museums and Galleries “I would love to say that hours spent in the pub during my formative years at Cambridge prepared me for dealing with drunks on a Friday night in Chelsea, that long afternoons poring over Neo-Assyrian manuscripts prepared me for slaving over arrest notes, or that excavating obsidian blades in a Neolithic city somehow gave me insight as to where naughty boys hide their knives. Alas, they did not!However, the sheer range of topics covered, the intensity of discussion and the standard of teaching give all Cambridge archaeology students an instinctive aptitudeor investigating and solving problems. An archaeology degree is for life, not just for Christmas. It doesn't necessarily mean that you are destined to a life of digging in a hole, or exiled to a dusty museum storeroom. Yet it does provide you with a special skill set that has ensured that my peers and I have established ourselves as everything from police officers to teachers to accountants to surveyors. More importantly, it was an awful lot of fun.”Helen Lomas, BA 2007, London Metropolitan Police © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe Archaeology Tripos programme at Cambridge lasts three years.  You will be assessed in each course, every year.  Often this is through a set of final examinations, but several courses also have coursework components of different kinds, and in your third year you can do a dissertation.  Your final degree class will depend on your performance in the third year.     © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeThe Archaeology Tripos programme at Cambridge lasts three years.  You will be assessed in each course, every year.  Often this is through a set of final examinations, but several courses also have coursework components of different kinds, and in your third year you can do a dissertation.  Your final degree class will depend on your performance in the third year.     © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge THE SECOND AND THIRD YEARSIn the second and third years you choose to specialise in a subject “track”, where you can develop your knowledge and skills in the area that most interests you: Archaeology, Biological Anthropology, Biological Anthropology and Archaeology, Egyptology, Assyriology, Assyriology and Egyptology. The papers you take depend on which track you are doing. None of the tracks presuppose that you took particular papers or combinations of papers in the first year.Whichever track you choose, your degree will be in Archaeology, but on your official transcript the track will be added in brackets, e.g. “Archaeology (Egyptology)”. The second and third year specialisation in Archaeology trains you in using material evidence to explore the nature and development of particular societies, and to explain the variations and commonalities of the human past in all its intellectual, social and cultural richness.Year 2 (Part IIA)You take two papers in theory and practice and data analysis, one covering the archaeology of a particular period or region, and either another period/region paper or one from Classics or HSPS. Fieldwork consists of a week overseas at Easter, and four weeks of fieldwork in the summer before you start Year 3.Year 3 (Part IIB)All students study advanced archaeological thought and archaeology in the wider world and a Special Topic, plus one or two papers from options within this course, Classics or HSPS. All students also write a dissertation.Sample paper topicsThe following, partly drawn from previous years, are a representative sample of the sorts of papers that might be on offer:Early Historic South AsiaThe Archaeology of IranTheories of Material CultureEuropean PrehistoryIntroduction to archaeological scienceAdvanced topics in archaeological scienceRome and the BarbariansOrigins of medieval EuropeThe archaeology of islandsIntroduction to soil micromorphologyMuseum ArchaeologyArchaeologies of the Anthropocene Biological Anthropology is the study of the place that humans occupy in nature, and the origin and pattern of human diversity. With an emphasis on the interaction between biology and culture, it sits firmly between the social and biological sciences. The specialization in the second and third year provides an understanding of our evolutionary history, adaptations, genetics, behaviour, and human health and disease, with a particular emphasis on how these factors relate to social and behavioural change.Year 2 (Part IIA)Three compulsory papers explore behavioural ecology, human origins, and health and disease. You select your fourth from options offered elsewhere in this course or HSPS.Year 3 (Part IIB)You take a theory and practice paper, and three more surveying current issues across biological anthropology and the other course subjects (you can substitute one for a dissertation or a paper from HSPS). Studying Biological Anthropology and Archaeology together will enrich your understanding of both disciplines, and how they can be combined to study the human past. Assyriology is the study of the languages, cultures, history and archaeology of ancient Mesopotamia – Sumer, Babylonia and Assyria.  These areas correspond to modern Iraq, and parts of Syria and Turkey. You can study Babylonian and Assyrian in all three years, and Sumerian in the third year.  Visits to museums are organised several times a year.Year 2 (Part IIA)You take four papers: Mesopotamian archaeology, Akkadian language, and two from other course options (one can be from Classics or HSPS). You also undertake a four-week study tour and/or fieldwork.Year 3 (Part IIB)You take advanced Akkadian language and Mesopotamian archaeology papers, and one on Mesopotamian history or culture or Sumerian language. The fourth is one of around 20 options available or a dissertation. Year 2 (Part IIA)You take papers in Egyptian language and archaeological methods and concepts, plus two papers on ancient Egyptian archaeology and culture. You also undertake a four-week study tour and/or fieldwork.Year 3 (Part IIB)Alongside a core Egyptian language paper and two Egyptian archaeology papers, all students write a dissertation. Joint study of Assyriology and Egyptology, including both Egyptian and Akkadian, provides you with one of the broadest backgrounds in Ancient Near Eastern Studies offered by any undergraduate degree programme in the world.  © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge THE FIRST YEAR (PART I)The first year is designed to give you a broad range of skills.  You can follow your existing interests, and/or explore new ones.  Formal paper choices are not due until several weeks into term, so that you will be able to “shop around” for a while to see which courses most excite you. You take four papers in your first year. All of these can be chosen from the seven core papers offered by Archaeology, or you can take three papers from Archaeology and borrow a fourth from another tripos. The papers available in Part I are as follows: One of the advantages of the Archaeology Tripos is the degree of flexibility available, and there are a number of possible course combinations. See course combinations below for examples. This paper focuses on key thresholds in the unfolding story of how and why societies change, starting from the origins of the human species.  You will study the emergence of culture and the use of symbols, domestication of plants and animals, and the development of social inequalities and leadership. Further themes will include the analysis of archaic states and early empires, the impact of writing systems, and the appearance of cities. You will gain an understanding of the relationship between archaeological data (sites and artefacts) and the diverse theories that help to explain long-term societal change, including ecological and evolutionary models, current social theory, and the post-colonial critique.The place of archaeological heritage in the modern world will also be discussed.  This course gives a comprehensive introduction to the methods and practices involved in archaeological field and lab research. It comprises taught lectures, practicals and field trips. The field trips introduce you to archaeological research on the ground (and from the air), including ways of surveying and mapping landscapes, the reconstruction of the environment in the past, and the investigation of human life-ways in settlements. The course also introduces you to the work that takes place after excavation, particularly the investigation of time and dating. You also learn to analyse different types of artefacts, including material culture of various types, plant remains, animal remains and human remains.  This paper provides a broad survey of the archaeology and history of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, introducing you to key themes and approaches in the study of these two regions. The paper provides outline histories of the regions and introduces the geography, archaeology, society, literature, art, belief systems and mortuary practices of these areas. The integration of archaeological, textual and artistic evidence as complementary sources for interpreting historical cultures is stressed throughout.  Teaching is through a mixture of lectures and seminars. With destruction of Mesopotamian antiquities underway in Iraq and Syria, the study of Akkadian (Babylonian and Assyrian) has never been more relevant. This paper, which presumes no previous knowledge of languages, introduces you to Babylonian as used in the Law Code of Hammurapi (c. 1760 BC) and the inscriptions of Sennacherib, king Assyria (c. 700 BC).  You will learn to translate both ways, and to read original cuneiform.  We will visit museum collections, where you can test your new knowledge against original inscriptions.  You can then take further courses in years 2 and 3, and also learn Sumerian in year 3. This paper offers an introduction to Middle Egyptian, the classical phase of the ancient Egyptian language that developed around 2000 B.C. The aim of the course is to provide a firm grounding in the fundamentals of the Egyptian hieroglyphic script and grammar, using a range of ‘set texts’ drawn from original sources. Additionally, the paper is intended to serve as the foundation for future advanced training in the different stages of ancient Egyptian. At the end of the year the student should be in a position to read straightforward texts in Middle Egyptian, such as many of the ones found in museum collections or carved on the walls of most Egyptian temples and tombs.  This paper introduces students to ways of looking at humans in different relevant disciplines, including social and biological anthropology. How does understanding humans as biological organisms or as members of cultures sometimes radically different from ours change how we understand the past and human societies? This paper provides a broad introduction to biological anthropology and covers major subject areas such as primate biology and behaviour, human evolution, adaptation to different environments and life history theory. Through studying this course, students will gain a strong foundation in the field of biological anthropology and an understanding of how different approaches can be used to address specific questions about human origins and diversity. The paper begins with an introduction to non-human primates, highlighting the importance of the comparative approach for understanding evolutionary processes. We then go on to discuss human evolution, diversity and adaptation, including introductory lectures on human genetics and health. The paper concludes with a module on human growth and ecology.    One of the advantages of the Archaeology Tripos is the degree of flexibility available, and there are a number of possible course combinations. For example, within the Archaeology Tripos it is possible to choose a combination of courses in Archaeology, Biological Anthropology and comparative approaches to being human, for example:A1 World archaeologyA2 Archaeology in actionA6 Being human: interdisciplinary perspectivesA7 Humans in biological perspective  It is also possible to choose courses that comprise a traditional Archaeology and Anthropology degree:A1 World archaeologyA6 Being human: interdisciplinary perspectivesA7 Humans in biological perspectiveSAN1 Introduction to Social Anthropology  Furthermore, within the Archaeology Tripos it is possible to choose courses that combine the study of more general archaeology alongside those focusing on the archaeology and languages of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, such as: A1 Introduction to archaeologyA2 Archaeology in actionA3 Introduction to the cultures of Egypt and MesopotamiaA4 Akkadian language I or A5 Egyptian language I   It is also possible to focus more explicitly on the archaeology and languages of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia: A1 Intro to archaeology or A2 Archaeology in actionA3 Introduction to the cultures of Egypt and MesopotamiaA4 Akkadian language IA5 Egyptian language I   On arrival in Cambridge, you will be able to discuss your choice of papers with the Director of Studies in your College, who will provide advice on which papers best suit your interests.In addition to lectures, practicals and supervisions, you will be involved in a range of field trips, and a two-week training dig during your first year.     © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge Download our undergraduate leaflets: Archaeology, Biological Anthropology, Egyptology & Assyriology For further information on our undergraduate course, please contact our Undergraduate Administrator Mrs Anna O'Mahony at undergraduate-secretary@arch.cam.ac.uk or on +44 (0)1223 339288.                 © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge  As well as being taught in Cambridge’s outstanding mix of lectures and small groups, as an Archaeology student you will be trained in excavation technique.Training excavations are held in the first and second year. In the summer between the second and third year, most students spend four weeks on an excavation of their choice, approved by the Department. Students in Assyriology and Egyptology either join an excavation or do a study tour of Archaeological sites and museums.  Departmental subsidies are available.        The Department also organises a number of field trips, including a weekend to Stonehenge and Avebury in the first year, and a week abroad in the second year.  Further field trips are organised by particular courses.  © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at CambridgeWe do not expect particular combinations of A-level subjects, and while we certainly welcome applicants who have done A level Archaeology, this is by no means necessary or expected.A typical offer (made by the College you apply to) will be A*AA; for the International Baccalaureate: 40-41 points, with 776 at Higher Level; for the Scottish Advanced Higher Grade, the usual requirement is AAA. What we look for in applicants is academic ability, motivation, and intellectual curiosity; because Archaeology is such a broad field, our students have backgrounds in everything from History to Biology, English to Physics, Philosophy to Geography.  Yes. Check out our recommended reading list for suggested title relating to the four tracks of our undergraduate course.  The process of applying to study at Cambridge is much the same as that for other universities. However, at Cambridge the process starts earlier and the UCAS application deadline is 15th October.The UCAS code for studying Archaeology, Biological Anthropology, Assyriology and Egyptology is V400. You can find detailed application information on the main Cambridge undergraduate website here.Admissions Tutors and Directors of Studies in the Colleges are always happy to answer your questions.© 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge  Cambridge Archaeology students have access to an outstanding range of Museums and Laboratories, which are closely integrated into our teaching. The Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology has an extensive teaching collection, which supports many of our courses.  The Museum also holds many open sessions for Archaeology students throughout the year, in which students can study objects from the Museum’s collections in their own time. Students in Assyriology and Egyptology are usually taken to the Fitzwilliam Museum (ten minutes away) and/or the British Museum (fifty minutes by train) once a year, to read original inscriptions.   Archaeological Science papers regularly hold supervised practical sessions in laboratories, where you might be examining cell-thin sections under a polarising-microscope, or analyzing the isotopes in a sample of your own hair to see what they reveal about your diet. Indeed, Cambridge Archaeology includes seventeen laboratories, where research is conducted at the highest international level in everything from carbonized pollen to archaeogenetics. Archaeology students will have access to a well-equipped IT suite, and to the Haddon Library of Archaeology and Anthropology.  They can also consult books in the unrivalled collections of the University Library.   © 2017 University of CambridgeDepartment of ArchaeologyStudying at Cambridge  Archaeology is the study of the human past, in all its social and cultural diversity. At Cambridge it is an outstandingly broad and exciting subject, equally rewarding for those who feel at home in the sciences, the humanities, or both.  Our undergraduate degree encompasses multiple tracks: Archaeology, Biological Anthropology, Assyriology and Egyptology. You can specialise in your chosen track already in Year 1, or combine them in Year 1 and specialise from Year 2. See course structure for further details.Our courses range in time from the Palaeolithic to the modern day and cover the Americas, the UK and Europe, Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia and Australia. We also offer courses on archaeological theory and practice, archaeological science, and museum and heritage studies. Over the course of your studies, you might find yourself analysing deformations in medieval skulls; translating Egyptian hieroglyphs; reconstructing past landscapes; learning about radio-carbon dating; studying imagery in a Babylonian poem; or debating the politics of cultural heritage. You will gain insights into many of the most important challenges for human life on earth in the present day, from climate change to social structures, to diet and sustainability, to economic inequality.  You will have engaged in the detailed study of primary sources, you may have studied an ancient language, and you will probably have written your first piece of independent research (in the form of a 10,000 word dissertation).Whatever interests you pursue and develop, our degree will refine your existing skills and build new ones, making you an informed and intelligent analyst of past societies and cultures, as well as a critical thinker, and an articulate presenter and writer of your ideas. These are skills highly valued by employers, opening the way to many careers as a graduate.Our teaching combines lectures, seminars, practical work, language classes, and lab experience. Fieldwork experience, for which departmental subsidies are available, is a vital element of the Archaeology course, and there are many opportunities for students to join department-based research projects.The Archaeology Field Club is an established student society within the Department and students also publish their own academic journal, the Archaeological Review from Cambridge. © 2017 University of CambridgeRavenRaven
	    An error occurred while processing your request. Note:
        
           If this problem persists then please contact the UIS Service Desk
           (service-desk@uis.cam.ac.uk). Please 
           quote the date and time this error occured and any error message apearing below.
        The Raven web authentication system is provided and managed by University Information Services.© 2017 University of Cambridge