Page not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeHomeWelcome to all prospective students! "Know languages, know countries, know people" Alexander Solzhenitsyn​Top of the league table for Modern Languages and Linguistics in the University Guide 2017, published by The Guardian newspaper. Thinking about studying Linguistics or Modern Languages?  These are rich, intellectually rewarding fields, through which your degree course may chart one of many diverse routes, all fostering skills that are highly sought after by top employers in many fields. We offer undergraduate degree courses in Modern and Medieval Languages (MML), Linguistics, and, jointly with the Faculty of History, in History and Modern Languages.A Modern Languages degree lets you study the world—and lets you get especially close to the cultures and peoples of other places: through the knowledge of their languages. As well as developing your language skills to a high level of fluency, our courses cover a broad spectrum of the culture, history, literature, art, film and philosophy relating to the languages we teach.Within the four-year MML degree you can also study the structure, history and properties of language alongside your study of modern foreign languages and incorporating a year abroad.Alternatively, the three-year degree in Linguistics lets you explore all aspects of language, our most crucially human attribute. Within the wide-ranging discipline of Linguistics you can explore properties which all languages share and which offer insight into the human mind. The degree in Linguistics does not require detailed knowledge of a particular language, and so the course is accessible to those who have a general interest in and knowledge of language.Cambridge is a vibrant and challenging place to study Modern Languages and Linguistics, ranked best in the country by The Guardian for 2017. Our world-renowned scholars and researchers are dedicated to teaching and inspiring undergraduates, and our degrees give you the flexibility to follow your interests and discover new ones. No matter what your background, the teaching at Cambridge will develop your knowledge and skills, enhance your analytical and creative thinking, introduce you to new subjects and approaches, and equip you to pursue independent research. The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages is committed to finding students with the highest potential, from any educational background. If you are a school or college student thinking of studying Modern Languages or Linguistics at university, these pages will provide you with everything you need to know.The Courses We Offer© 2017 University of CambridgeApplying for Undergraduate StudyHome"Know languages, know countries, know people"  Aleksander SolzhenitsynTop of the league table for Modern Languages and Linguistics in the University Guide 2017 published by The Guardian newspaper.For the MML Faculty's statement on Entrance Requirements click here.Cambridge came top of the league table for Modern Languages and Linguistics in the University Guide for 2017 published by The Guardian newspaper, beating Oxford for the sixth year running.We aim to provide all our students with degree courses of the highest quality in languages and language-related studies.The Faculty offers three degrees: Modern & Medieval Languages (MML), History and Modern Languages, and Linguistics.With a degree in Modern Languages or Linguistics from Cambridge, you can offer any employer an impressive range of highly developed skills and qualities: a specialist knowledge of languages and cultures, skills of analysis, advanced communication skills, and computing and research skills, amongst other things. Cambridge graduates are highly sought after by employers in every sector, and linguists have a particularly good record of employability.For the MML Faculty's statement on Entrance Requirements click here.If you have any questions about the admissions process, please contact the Cambridge Admissions Office. If you have specific enquiries relating to the course, please contact the MML Faculty Office by email at facultyoffice@mml.cam.ac.uk or by telephone on +44 (0)1223 335000.© 2017 University of CambridgeAccess and Widening ParticipationUndergraduatesThe Faculty, the University and its Colleges are committed to widening participation to the University and to higher education in general. Hundreds of outreach initiatives and events are run each year both in Cambridge and in schools and colleges across the UK. We are committed to helping all students thrive.Here are some other initiatives in which the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages is involved.  Please also see our Resources for Teachers page.Insight is an academic programme which aims to help students start thinking about higher education choices and their future. A series of events throughout Years 9,10,11 helps to develop and broaden students’ interests and tackle the barriers many students face when applying to university. HE+ is a collaborative project being piloted by the University of Cambridge and its Colleges, working together with groups of state schools and colleges in fourteen regions of the UK.The Higher Education Partnership initiative aims to raise aspirations amongst students in schools across Cambridgeshire and Peterborough.Sutton Trust Summer Schools are free subject-specific residential courses for Year 12 (or equivalent) students studying at state-maintained schools in the UK. The five-day summer schools in July and August allow students to explore their interest in one of 26 subject courses and gain an insight into what it is like to live and study as a first-year undergraduate student at Cambridge.The Sutton Trust Summer Schools are heavily oversubscribed and each year we have to turn away many students with whom we would like to work. The 'Experience Cambridge' initiative works with up to 1000 students in subjects where we receive considerably more applications than places.The Masterclasses provide students with an opportunity to explore topics of interest beyond what is covered within the A Level syllabus, and offer the chance to experience typical undergraduate teaching at Cambridge.Each autumn, the University of Cambridge runs practical and informative sessions for Year 11 students. The events, called The Subject Matters, highlight the importance of suitable A Level (or equivalent) subject choices when making an application to a selective, research-led university, and help students access information to make informed A Level choices.The University's Area Links Scheme enables the Cambridge Colleges to build effective, coherent relationships with schools and colleges across the UK. It gives schools and colleges a direct way of staying in touch with the University by providing specific contact points, and it enables the Cambridge Colleges to get to know specific regions and the local educational environments.All Cambridge Colleges share a willingness to provide advice and guidance, and to listen to your perspectives on what we can do to help make Cambridge as accessible as possible to all students with the ability and potential to study here.© 2017 University of CambridgeCambridge Modern Foreign Languages Annual Conference for Teachers (CamMACT)Resources for TeachersOur aim is to offer teachers the opportunity to hear about our degree teaching by attending sample lectures and talks. We are also keen to create enough time in our programmes for formal and informal questions and exchanges. Transition from school to University and any questions relating to admissions are examples of recent topics for Q&As and discussions over lunch.The events are free, refreshments and lunch are included.For information about travel bursaries, look through our resources page.Please contact the College linked with your school via the Cambridge area links to find out if  "your" College can offer accommodation. See here to find out which College is linked with your area. There were many excellent talks presented during the course of the conference, and a number of our CamMACT speakers have kindly made some materials for our delegates to review:You can find the full programme of events for the 2016 conference here.  Our speakers introduced some of the latest ideas in language teaching at university level and explained how the topics taught develop out of current A Level courses.CamMACT 2017 provided two question and answer sessions, one on the Cambridge Admissions process and one on teaching MFL. Delegates received advice on what is looked for in undergraduate applications and how prospective students might prepare themselves for interview. In addition to the full programme of presentations, there were opportunities to discuss interests and issues informally with Faculty members and colleagues throughout the conference.'Now more than ever, languages education matters. In a climate of political uncertainty and with the prospect of social fragmentation and economic instability, our ability and willingness to speak multiple languages and develop intercultural understanding increase in significance and value. Language skills and cultural agility connect us to our past, define our present and have the potential to transform our future.' 9:30-10:00 – Registration10:00-10:30 – Bernardette Holmes: ‘Speaking to a global future’10:30-11:00 – Annemarie Künzl-Snodgrass and Natasha Franklin: ‘Starting a language from scratch at university’  11:00-11:30 – Coffee break11:30-12:00 – Martin Crowley: ‘At the limits of the human’12:00-12:30 – Liana Giannakopoulou: ‘Mythical motifs in literature’12:30-13:00 – Stanley Bill: ‘Teaching Polish in the UK’13:00-14:00 – Lunch14:00-14:30 – Maite Conde and Felipe Schuery: ‘Decolonisation and modernity in the Lusophone world: Working across language and culture’14:30-15:00 – Laura Moretti: ‘Languages and Cultures of the East’ 15:00-15:30 – Coffee break15:30-16:30 – Admissions and Outreach at Cambridge’, with Stuart Davis, Admissions Tutor at Girton, Laura Moretti, School Liaison Officer at the Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, Laura Lonsdale, Director of Outreach and School Liaison, Oxford MML, Silke Mentchen, Director of Outreach and School Liaison, Cambridge MML.16:30-17:00 – Roundtable on teaching MFL, with Emily Wagstaff, Oundle School, Stefanie Green, Farlingaye High School, Bernardette Holmes MBE, Speak to the Future/ Born Global.17:00 – Drinks reception  Read some comments from delegates: ‘Easier to come for one full day, thank you.’  ‘A lovely day with some fascinating insights into MFL and Cambridge University life. Difficult to make the day much better in my opinion. Many thanks.’  A draft programme will be published here as soon as it's available. © 2017 University of CambridgeCareers and EmploymentUndergraduatesCambridge graduates have an excellent employability rate in every sector, and linguists have a particularly good record.The value of languages and linguistics expertise is fully recognised across the board (e.g. by the British Chambers of Commerce and in reports commissioned by the British Council), and as an MML graduate you will have a wide range of career options ahead of you. The specialist knowledge of languages and cultures, skills of analysis and argumentation, advanced communication and computing skills, together with the experience in independent thinking and project management, are highly sought-after competencies in the job market.During your studies in Modern Languages or Linguistics you will develop many of the transferable skills sought by employers. Cambridge University Careers Service provides examples of the skills and knowledge with which a degree in Modern Languages or Linguistics will equip you, and you can read about some of the careers our former students have chosen to pursue here.Over 90% of MML graduates are in employment or further study 6 months after graduation. Our graduates find employment in a wide range of professions including language teaching (school and university level), translation/ interpreting, journalism, publishing, marketing, public service, banking and investment, accountancy, law, logistics and distribution, teaching English as a foreign language, arts and recreation, speech and language therapy, and information technology among many others.Read more about Modern Languages and career opportunities here and see what some of our former students have gone on to do here.The Prospects website has a page on using your Modern Languages degree.Detailed information on careers and graduate destinations can be found on the University of Cambridge Career Service webpage on Destinations, on CamDATA/Unistats and the Higher Education Statistics Agency.Student Testimonials© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeCoursesUndergraduatesThe Modern and Medieval Languages degree offers exceptional opportunities to study the languages and cultures of most European (and many non-European) countries. Our students acquire advanced linguistic and critical skills, as well as intercultural sensitivity, which places them among the most sought-after graduates on the job market.Read more on the Modern and Medieval Languages courseAre you curious about our most crucially human attribute, language? Is a subject that combines the arts and sciences appealing? If you’ve found yourself asking ‘why?’ or ‘how?’ in relation to language, then Linguistics is for you.Read more on the Linguistics courseOur History and Modern Languages course provides insight into the cultures of other countries, and understanding of the past and present in international contexts.Read more on the History and Modern Languages degree© 2017 University of CambridgeCoursesUndergraduatesThe History and Modern Languages course provides insight into the cultures of other countries, and understanding of the past and present in international contexts. This exciting new four-year Honours degree, offered jointly by the Faculty of Modern & Medieval Languages and the Faculty of History, encompasses intensive study in language, culture, film, as well as a wide variety of British, European and world history. Like other language students, you spend the third year abroad – studying or working in a foreign country, and immersing yourself in the language, culture and history. History courses allow you to develop critical skills in analysis, research, presentation, and writing.When you graduate, you’ll have near native-speaker skills in your language and a deep knowledge and understanding of the regions in which that language is used. You’ll also have a deep immersion in the discipline and craft of history and a deep understanding of the many forces that have shaped the past and present.The course lasts four years and is split into three Parts: Part IA in the first year, Part IB in the second year, and Part II in years three and four.Details of the structure of the course can be found here.Graduates will possess skills that will appeal to a wide range of employers. You'll have gained written and verbal fluency in a second language and experience of living abroad; which are highly sought-after transferrable skills. You will possess a wide-ranging knowledge of history, European and beyond, as well as a range of skills in reading critically, dealing with information, working independently and with others, and speaking and writing with clarity. Note on applications: Students applying for joint honours courses may be offered places for single honours courses after interview.     See the course entry in the prospectus        What is Cambridge like?© 2017 University of CambridgeKey FactsThe History and Modern Languages CourseUCAS Code: VR18 BA/HMLCourse duration: Four years (Year 3 spent abroad)Places available: 20For other qualifications, see the Undergraduate Prospectus Entrance requirements pages.All applicants for History and ML are required to take written assessments both pre-interview (the History assessment) and at interview (the Modern Languages assessment), if interviewed.Full details of the assessment are available in the Undergraduate Prospectus (link at the bottom).Applicants to some Colleges are required to submit one or two school/college essays as examples of written work prior to interview. See individual College websites for further details.See the course entry in the online prospectus© 2017 University of CambridgeCourse structureThe History and Modern Languages CourseThe course lasts four years and is split into three Parts: Part IA in the first year, Part IB in the second year, and Part II in years three and four.© 2017 University of CambridgePart IACourse structureIn your first year you will study four units:Note that new languages will be added to the History/Modern languages degree program from October 2018. The full range of languages available from October 2018 will be:Students will take the relevant introductory Modern Language paper:Students will take two papers from the following range:Click here for full details on the History papers© 2017 University of CambridgePart IBCourse structureIn your second year you will study four units:Students will take at least one of the following Modern Language papers:It is possible to submit two long essays of 3,500-4,000 words instead of taking a written exam in some of the language papers from Schedule A and B.Students will take at least one paper from the following range:Click here for full details on the History papers© 2017 University of CambridgePart IICourse structurePart II lasts for two years.In your third year, you will undertake a Year Abroad, and write a project report of 8,000 words.In your fourth year, you will study four units:One paper may be replaced by a dissertation of 10,000 words.Students will take at least one paper from the following range:Click here for full details on the History papers© 2017 University of CambridgeCoursesUndergraduates Linguistics is the systematic study of human language. Superficially, there’s huge variation among the world’s languages, and linguists not only describe the diverse characteristics of individual languages but also explore properties which all languages share and which offer insight into the human mind. The study of linguistics draws on methods and knowledge from a wide range of disciplines. For instance, the study of meaning draws on philosophy, the analysis of the speech signal uses methods from physics and engineering, and the study of language acquisition draws on psychology. This variety is one of the things that makes linguistics fascinating: one day you might be poring over a medieval text for evidence of how the grammar of a language has changed, and the next, learning about how the larynx creates sound energy for speech, or how we can record brain responses in a categorisation task.At Cambridge you will study the core components of linguistic theory, such as phonetics and phonology, syntax and semantics, and you will also make use of knowledge and expertise drawn from disciplines as diverse as computer sciences, philosophy, physics, biology, sociology, psychology and neuroscience. We encourage a balanced approach to developing skills in the discipline, and we have state-of-the-art facilities to enrich your studies by enabling you to put what you have learnt into practice and to conduct your own theoretical or experimental project.For details on the Linguistics course, please see the Linguistics Tripos pages.See the course entry in the prospectus       What is Cambridge like?© 2017 University of CambridgeCoursesUndergraduates&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;!--cke_bookmark_162E--&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;A languages degree at Cambridge might be for you if you:If you have the kind of interests and curiosity described above, and if you are on course to achieve top grades in your forthcoming exams, you should definitely consider applying. You are likely to be a serious candidate.Cambridge came top of the league table for Modern Languages and Linguistics in the University Guide for 2017 published by The Guardian newspaper, beating Oxford for the sixth year running. The most recent National Student Survey places Cambridge MML at the top for Overall Student Satisfaction, with a rate of 99%. This is one of the highest scores in the University of Cambridge, itself the highest-ranked institution of the Russell Group.The Modern and Medieval Languages degree offers exceptional opportunities to study the languages and cultures of most European (and many non-European) countries. Our students acquire advanced linguistic and critical skills, as well as intercultural sensitivity, which places them among the most sought-after graduates on the job market.The Modern and Medieval Languages course at Cambridge is exceptionally flexible and wide-ranging in scope, offering opportunities to study in depth the culture, history, literature, philosophy, art and film relating to the languages we teach, as well as topics in linguistics that explore the specific languages you are learning and the properties which all languages share.  In each year of your degree, you will follow courses (‘papers’) of two kinds:The degree requires the study of two languages, at least for the first two years. One of these may be a classical language (Latin or Greek). See the course entry in the prospectus © 2017 University of CambridgeMMLThe MML CourseIn your first year you will study your two languages in more or less equal proportions.  There are written exams (and orals) at the end of the year. For ab initio learners, the language course will move at a fast pace to equip you with grammar and vocabulary to allow you to converse, express ideas, and encounter literary texts already by the end of your first term.  For your A-Level standard language, classes and homework assignments will develop your command of the written and spoken language and your skills of translation.For each of your two languages, you will also study a year-long introductory course to the culture of that language. These courses are designed to introduce you to the study of literature, culture, history of your chosen languages and to expose you to a range of subjects and materials, including an introduction to linguistics. For example, you might find yourself sampling works from medieval times to the present; reading poetry, prose, drama; viewing films, paintings, propaganda posters; studying topics in philosophy or history, phonetics or syntax.  It doesn’t matter what A-Levels you took: these courses will introduce you to the study of literature, history, art, linguistics, philosophy regardless of your background and prior experience.The Second Year© 2017 University of CambridgeMMLThe MML CourseReturning from your Year Abroad, you can choose from a very wide selection of options in your final year.For the final year language papers, most students choose to specialize in one language (even though you may still have obtained a high degree of fluency in two during your year abroad).  However, it is also possible to continue with both languages.In your fourth year you also have the option to ‘borrow’ papers from other Faculties, including History and English, and to bring your work in multiple language areas together by choosing from the Faculty’s comparative papers.You can also elect to replace one written exam with an Optional Dissertation, another piece of extended independent research on a topic of your choice that you work on throughout the year with guidance from a supervisor.By the fourth year, every student’s course of study is unique. You will have the opportunity to follow and develop your own interests, in your scheduled paper work as well as if you elect to write an optional dissertation. What is Cambridge like?© 2017 University of CambridgeMMLThe MML CourseLanguage-work continues in your ab initio and A-Level languages.You now have a lot of freedom and flexibility to make selections from the Faculty’s range of scheduled papers for Part IB, focusing on the periods and topics that are most interesting to you. You will continue to develop your analytical skills: throughout the year you will approach texts, films and images with a deepening understanding of their historical and cultural context and learn more about critical and theoretical approaches to textual and cultural analysis.As well as papers in literature, culture and history, there are papers relating to the history and structure of the languages you are learning. You can also pick papers from the Linguistics Tripos.  In other words, if your main interest is linguistics, you can begin to focus primarily or exclusively on that now alongside your language work.    In the second year you also have the opportunity to add a third language, if you wish. You can, subject to availability, choose to take an introductory course in a language and culture you haven’t studied before. The languages currently on offer are Catalan, Dutch, Modern Greek, Polish, Portuguese and Ukrainian. Note that we cannot guarantee that places on these courses will be available to all students.There are written exams again at the end of the year, but if you prefer coursework, you also have the option (in some papers) to offer two Long Essays written during in the year instead of the final exam.The Third Year Abroad© 2017 University of CambridgeMMLThe MML CourseMML students spend their third year abroad in one of three ways: they attend a foreign university, become an English-speaking assistant at a school, or in employment (which may be paid or unpaid). In the past, some have:You have great freedom and flexibility (and support from the Faculty) in making your plans: you can tailor your third year abroad to suit your own interests and later career goals, providing you spend at least eight months abroad and are constantly immersed in one of the foreign languages you’re studying.If you wish you can split the year between two countries, spending at least three months in any one country and a total of at least eight months abroad.The Faculty offers advice and resources to help you make your plans, and remains a point of contact for support while you are away.  You will also complete a 7-8,000 word independent research or translation project during this year on a topic of your choice, with guidance from a supervisor in Cambridge. Examples of recent projects include:The Fourth Year© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeHow to ApplyUndergraduatesThis page gives advice specific to applying for Modern and Medieval Languages.Reading this page will also be useful for History and Modern Languages. Since the admissions process will comprise two strands (one for History, one for your Modern Language), please also see information about entry requirements (including both written tests) here and advice from the Faculty of History.For information about applying for the Linguistics degree, including details of the written test, please see here.For full information on the admissions process for all subjects, general guidelines, advice, and deadlines, please visit the University's Undergraduate Admissions pages. EU students applying for university places in the 2018 to 2019 academic year will remain eligible for financial support.  We welcome and warmly encourage applications from talented students from every educational and social background. Students of Modern Languages offer all sorts of A Level (or equivalent) subject combinations.  In Cambridge, admissions are handled by individual Colleges, not the Faculty, so you should consult the webpage of the College to which you would like to apply (or to which you are assigned, if you make an Open Application).You may wish to visit the town beforehand in order to gain some first-hand impressions, ideally in conjunction with one of the Open Days that are regularly organised by the Faculty in March, by the University in July, and by many of the Colleges at various times.Each College gives an explanation of its approach to the admissions process on the subject pages of its website. Please note that when you apply for Modern and Medieval Languages at Cambridge, your choice of College does not limit your choice of languages or your opportunities to pursue the courses that particularly interest you.There are small variations between the Colleges in the precise way interviews are conducted, and in the other things expected of you in connection with your application, but all the people involved in the assessment of applicants share one common purpose: to select the most appropriate students for the range of courses we offer and the way we teach in MML. Please also read the MML Faculty's statement on Entrance Requirements.It is on the Supplementary Application Questionnaire that you are able to specify the languages you wish to study. For guidance on completing this questionnaire, see here. You will be asked to do a written test on the day of your interview, in the College that is interviewing you. We encourage you not to be nervous about it, but rather to enjoy it as a chance to practice: it is designed to test your skills rather than your knowledge. The written test will be of one hour’s length and based on a short text in English. It will be marked by the subject experts in the College that is interviewing you according to an agreed set of criteria.Four specimen tests, together with the agreed criteria, can be found here:Applicants can find some useful information on preparing for the written test here:Candidates for History and Modern Languages are required to take the written assessment for History, which is held prior to interview, and a written assessment for MML, taken at interview. The form of the MML written assessment will depend on whether the candidate is applying to study a language post A-level or ab initio (meaning from scratch or with a qualification in the language below A-level standard, e.g. GCSE).History and Modern Languages candidates applying to study a post A-level language will take the same written assessment as MML applicants (see sample papers and other information above).History and Modern Languages candidates applying to study a language ab initio will take the HML written assessment for ab initio languages. Candidates will find a sample paper, marking criteria and useful information on the test here. A solution to the language aptitude test section of the sample paper is available here.  You may have separate interviews for each of the languages you want to study, or there may be a single subject interview where you will be asked questions relating to both the languages you want to study. An interview will not normally last much more than 30 minutes.You may also have a second kind of interview conducted by someone from outside the subject for which you are applying (e.g. a College Tutor) who will want to discuss your general interests and academic aspirations, and one that concentrates on the subject you want to study. The College to which you apply will give you a clear sense of its procedures when it invites you for interview.In preparation for the interview you may be asked to send the College some information about your interest in particular books or films. In any case, your interviewers will have read all your application documents carefully and may ask you to talk about any reading or experiences abroad that you mention in your application.Trinity Hall have produced a video of a full admissions interview for a Modern Languages degree.> Watch the video on YouTubeThe College that interviews you may ask you to send in some recent written work. This is mainly so that your interviewers can gauge at first hand the sort of work you are currently doing, and they will consider this information alongside everything else that they learn about you from your application documents. If you are at all unclear about the kind of work expected, please contact the Admissions Office of the College concerned.Resources for Students© 2017 University of CambridgeHow to ApplyHow to ApplyHere are some answers to the frequently asked questions we receive from candidates applying to study MML:The UCAS personal statement allows you an opportunity to tell us what you find most interesting about your chosen subject, and why you want to continue to study it at university. We often use it as one starting point for discussion at interview, but not always.  There are many ways of demonstrating an interest in the subject, but the most important is showing evidence of further reading in your spare time. We hope you will tell us about what you have read outside school, and what you thought of it.As well as evidence of your motivation to explore your interest in the subject independently, we also look for:If the College you apply to asks you to submit written work, it is important to know that you don't need to write something specially. When we read work you have done for school, we are looking for evidence of good written language skills, coherent structure, and effective analysis and argument.Your thoughts and ideas! We will ask you about what you have studied and read for pleasure, about what you have explored beyond your school curriculum. Reading outside of your school studies is an important way of demonstrating your initiative and enthusiasm, but you might have also watched films, plays, visited exhibitions, traveled or worked abroad. (Please be assured, though, that for MML we do not expect you to have already traveled to the countries where your languages are spoken and the lack of such experience does not put you at a disadvantage.)In subject interviews for MML you should expect to be asked to speak in those languages for which you are applying and which you are studying at A-level or equivalent. This part of the interview is unlikely to take more than 10 minutes. The interviewers will also want to give you adequate opportunities to demonstrate your aptitude for the other elements of our course co, e.g. the literature, linguistics, visual culture or history and thought associated with the languages you want to study.In a lot of MML interviews, the applicant is given short passage (in the foreign language) to read just before the interview and asked what she or he thinks about it. This is not a vocabulary test, nor a quiz that’s trying to get the ‘right answer’ from you: we are interested to see how you respond to new material, and will discuss the passage in dialogue with you.We encourage you to read and explore widely in advance, and think about what you have read and seen. It can be a good idea to read pre-twentieth century works as well as more contemporary writing. You can also read or watch the news in different languages, for example.  When you are encountering texts and other media by yourself, it can be a good idea to ask yourself questions: how do these works compare to other ones you know?  Do these books or films ask any big questions about the nature of life, experience, identity, history? If so, do they give straightforward answers?  What are the effects of any ‘strange’ things about these works that perhaps you don’t understand at first?  These are just suggestions: what matters most of all is ambitious exploring and thinking outside school.For inspiration, you may want to have a look at the HE+ website. There is no one answer to this question. The truth is, anything you like, and everything that interests you. You should challenge yourself, however, to move beyond the texts you feel comfortable and secure amongst, and beyond the confines of any A-level set texts. If you are applying to study a language from scratch, then you will, of course, be beginning your explorations in translation. The section on Resources for Students offers some guidance on this question.How to Apply© 2017 University of CambridgeThe CoursesUndergraduatesModern and Medieval Languages
			UCAS Code: R800 BA/MML
			Applications per place (2015): 2
			Number accepted (2015): 173Linguistics                                 
			UCAS Code: Q100 BA/L                
			Applications per place (2015): 3
			Number accepted (2015): 27History and Modern Languages
			UCAS Code: VR18 BA/HML
			New for 2017 entry                          
			Number accepted (2015): 20 EU students applying for university places in the 2018 to 2019 academic year will remain eligible for financial support. MML and History and Modern Languages are available as a course of study at all Cambridge colleges.  Linguistics is available at all Colleges except St Catherine’s.In the MML degree, all our students study two languages, one of which can be learnt from scratch (the exceptions being French and Latin, for which A Level/IB Higher Level standard is required). No matter what your proficiency when you arrive, you leave with near native-speaker competence in at least one of your languages. Most of our language classes are run by native speakers.You can combine the study of one language with History in the joint honours degree History and Modern Languages. A-Level: A*AAIB: 40-41 points, with 776 at Higher LevelIt is University policy that the A* grade will not normally be tied to a specific subject. The MML Faculty has taken note of the recent reviews of the grading of language A Levels by JCQ and Ofqual, and it is monitoring the trends in the award of high grades at A Level with a view to providing Colleges with appropriate advice on gauging the achievements of candidates in language A Levels relative to other subjects.    Comprehensive information on our course costs can be found on this page.  You study two languages for at least the first two years of the course. You can choose from:Alternatively, you can combine any of these with either Classical Latin (if you’re taking it at A Level/IB Higher Level) or Classical Greek (which can be studied post-A Level or from scratch).If you wish to combine one of these modern European languages with Arabic, Hebrew or Persian, you can do so by applying for the Asian and Middle Eastern Studies degree course.It is also possible to combine French, German, Russian or Spanish with History in the History and Modern Languages course. In this combination, an A Level (or equivalent) is required in the language, with the exception of Russian, which may be studied either with A Level or without any prior knowledge.All undergraduate admissions decisions are the responsibility of the Cambridge Colleges and many have College-specific requirements. All Colleges use an Admissions Test of a common format.  Some Colleges may require the submission of written work prior to interview. See the How to Apply section for further information, and check the websites of individual Colleges.You need to show us that you have linguistic knowledge, an aptitude for languages and a general interest in language issues. We also want to know that you are interested in and have an aptitude for studying some of the other things that are taught as part of the MML course, such as literature, history, film, etc. You need to be taking at least one modern language at A Level or equivalent and would be expected to achieve at least an A grade in that subject.In addition to A Level modern languages, English, History and classical languages are useful subjects, though they are by no means essential, and many successful applicants have studied Mathematics and science subjects. The main requirement for studying linguistics is a lively curiosity about the nature of language. Because linguistics is interdisciplinary we welcome applicants whose profile is science-oriented as well as arts-centred. Some formal study of language, either through learning languages or through English Language A Level (or equivalent) does however serve as a good preparation. Please see here.The MML CourseThe Linguistics CourseThe History and Modern Languages Course © 2017 University of CambridgeCourse costsThe Courses: Key FactsThe tuition fees for UK and EU students for 2016/17 is £9,000 per year for all courses (subject to government-approved increases in future years). Information on fees can be found in the Finance section of the study.cam.ac.uk pages.For UK/EU students undertaking a full year abroad in 2016/17, the tuition fee payable to the University of Cambridge will be 15% of the ordinary fee (£1,350). Information on the fees for the year abroad can be found at the Finance section of the study.cam.ac.uk pages. Please also see the Year Abroad section of the MML site.MML and Linguistics undergraduate students incur expenses for the following (Please refer to the relevant subject area websites to find out about subject-specific costs, such as course books, DVDs, etc., and to the Year Abroad website to find out about costs for the year spent abroad):In addition the following is relevant to students taking the MML degree course:March 2016© 2017 University of CambridgeMML Open Day 2018Visit UsThe next Faculty Open Day will take place on Friday 16 March 2018. Information on how to book a place will be made available nearer the time.The programme for the day will include introductory talks on both MML and Linguistics, sample lectures and tours of the MML Library and other facilities such as the Phonetics Lab and the Psycholinguistics Lab. There will be stands for each Department where you will be able to meet staff and students, and there will also be information available about the Year Abroad and the University Language Centre. The Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies will also be running an Open Day at the same time and information on combining MML with Middle Eastern Studies will also be available.Please see the Cambridge Admissions Office website for more information on Open Days and Access events.For reference, you can view the 2017 Open Day programme. The 2018 programme will be published nearer the time, and will be distributed to prospective students on the day.Click to browse maps of the Sidgwick Site.Unfortunately we are not able to offer parking on the Sidgwick site, for either individual or school groups. The Sidgwick Site is served by the Universal bus service, which stops on West Road and also connects to the train station. We recommend visitors either come to Cambridge on the train, or use the Park & Ride facilities, details of which can be found on the Council's website.If you are a Blue Badge holder, please contact us for details of accessible parking.© 2017 University of CambridgeAccess deniedHome© 2017 University of CambridgeResources for StudentsUndergraduatesIf you are a school or college student thinking of studying Modern Languages or Linguistics at university, these pages will provide you with sample approaches to the study of culturally significant texts and resources for exploring them.Looking for ways to explore your subject beyond the curriculum? Then this website is for you. Each topic is produced by Cambridge postgraduate students and academics at the cutting edge of research in their field. The topics provide guided activities (for French, German, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish), questions to think about and suggestions for further reading.The main subject pages also give you a quick guide to what it would be like to study the subject at university level and suggest some further resources to check out. Click on a subject icon or search all topics to get started!Villiers Park is an educational charity. They also provide stimulating modules in French, German and Spanish.The Cambridge University Language Centre has developed a number of Open Courseware resources in French, German, Italian, Russian and Spanish.  Listen to Dr Napoleon Katsos's talk on the advantages of learning languages:Enough to keep you busy!Careers and Employment© 2017 University of CambridgeResources for TeachersUndergraduatesIf you are supporting a young person who is thinking about their university options, it is likely that you have your own questions and concerns about them entering higher education.We value enormously the support and encouragement that teachers, tutors, and HE advisers give to students who may be thinking of applying here. You'll find lots of useful advice and guidance in the Advice for teachers, tutors & HE advisers pages. Cambridge Admissions Office (CAO) and College admissions offices are always available to give advice to teachers on admissions policy and other matters.The University’s comprehensive guide for teachers, tutors and HE advisors can be found here.As well as events for prospective students, a number of events for teachers, tutors, and HE advisers are organised by the Cambridge Admissions Office (CAO) and several of the Colleges. These events provide up-to-date information about the University, including the application procedure and the range of outreach activities on offer. Below are some of the initiatives with which the MML Faculty and the Language Centre are particularly involved.  We organise and deliver a number of events for schools (mainly in the East of England) with low participation in Higher Education, to promote transition and progression from KS3 to KS4; from KS4 to Sixth Form and from Sixth Form into studying languages at university level. The Teachers' Workshop is a one-day event designed for teachers and advisers who directly support and advise sixth-form students applying to the University of Cambridge. It will provide you with the most up-to-date information on our application, selection and interview procedures.Sutton Trust Cambridge Teacher Residential is a two day residential initiative which runs alongside the Sutton Trust Summer Schools for Year 12 students each summer. The Teacher Residential offers teachers from UK state-maintained sector schools and colleges the opportunity to develop their understanding of high quality subject-specific enrichment for highly-able students, in order to support strong applications to top universities, including Cambridge. The Prince's Teaching Institute has worked in partnership with the University of Cambridge since the charity was created in 2006. Many of its academic speakers are drawn from Cambridge faculties, including several from the Cambridge MML Faculty. We hope to meet you on a Prince's Trust event soon!  We organise an annual conference for Teachers of Foreign Languages in Cambridge. Our aim is to inform colleagues, to exchange ideas about the teaching of MFL and to provide networking opportunities.Please click here for a CamMACT bursary application form for 2017. The University's Area Links Scheme enables the Cambridge Colleges to build effective, coherent relationships with schools and colleges across the UK. It gives schools and colleges a direct way of staying in touch with the University by providing specific contact points, and it enables the Cambridge Colleges to get to know specific regions and the local educational environments.All Cambridge Colleges share a willingness to provide advice and guidance, and to listen to your perspectives on what we can do to help make Cambridge as accessible as possible to all students with the ability and potential to study here. The Oxford and Cambridge Collaborative Outreach Network was founded to highlight opportunities for both teachers and students to find out more about studying at Oxford or Cambridge. It brings together details of upcoming events, helpful resources and information, and booking for school visits.© 2017 University of CambridgeStudent testimonialsCareers and EmploymentFrench and German (2015)BA in German and French 2009
MPhil in European Literature and Culture 2010Conductor and pianistGerman and Italian (ab initio) (2009)
MPhil (2010), European Literature and CultureResearch student in Clinical PsychologyBA (1991), French & ItalianPhD StudentBA (2008), French and GermanProgramme Officer, United Nations Children's FundBA (2006), French and GermanSenior Manager, KPMGBA Russian and German (ab initio)Journalistic Editor, European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights Careers and Employment© 2017 University of CambridgeCaroline DaleStudent testimonialsI am a Senior Manager at KPMG. I graduated from Cambridge in German and French, with some wonderful memories, and some great friends. As an A level student, I had no clear life plan so decided to study subjects I'd enjoyed at school. In particular, I was attracted by the variety of the MML course and the ability to mix and match different papers and different languages each year. My studies ranged from the politics of German Reunificiation to Medieval French poetry to writing a press release on a new tractor for the German local press!Following my graduation in 2006 I joined KPMG's graduate scheme in the Financial Service Audit department in Leeds. This combined work on clients (mainly in the banking sector) with study for an accountancy qualification over the first three years. Since then, colleagues, clients and friends have often asked me why I did a languages degree and then moved into accountancy. My answer is always that, although you do need to be numerate to be an accountant, it's far more important to be able to communicate than to be able to construct complex formulae. A languages degree stands you in excellent stead for this. Being catapulted into a foreign language, and a foreign culture, gave me a far greater awareness of how we communicate, and skills in overcoming barriers. This ability to explain, or indeed look at, a problem from a different angle has subsequently been invaluable when discussing complex issues with my clients, or explaining tricky tasks to my team.In addition, just 12 months into my job, I was offered the chance to spend 6 months at KPMG in Frankfurt, speaking German with colleagues and clients on a daily basis. As the only native English speaker taking part in this European exchange programme, it was a great privilege and also a fantastic way to build my network of contacts across Europe, many of whom I still see. It also helps me to differentiate myself from the crowd in careers discussions and promotion interviews.Another really important skill for my working (and non-working) life is the ability and the confidence to act independently, which my year abroad certainly helped me to develop. I spent this as a language assistant in a school in Gera, Germany, where there were very few other English speakers, and where I knew nobody before I arrived. Coping with situations independently where I might ordinarily have turned to friends or family for help was sometimes challenging (trying to negotiate with a German washing machine repairman or a health insurance company) but I got a huge sense of achievement from it. I believe it's also given me much more enthusiasm for and confidence in grasping and just getting on with projects I might otherwise have shied away from. I know I survived presenting at 5 minutes' notice to 30 people in a foreign language, so suddenly other tasks seem less daunting!I've now been at KPMG for 8 years, and I feel that the MML course gave me many experiences and helped me develop skills I wouldn't have gained elsewhere.© 2017 University of CambridgeEsther WilkinsonStudent testimonialsI studied German and Italian (ab initio) as part of the MML Tripos, graduating in 2009, and went on to take the MPhil in European Literature and Culture in 2009-10. After finishing my MPhil I switched career track and took a one-year conversion course in Psychology.Since then I have been employed mainly in psychological research, with a focus on developing and testing out therapies for parents who experience psychological problems during pregnancy and the first few years after the birth of their child. These have been joint projects between universities and the NHS, and have involved working with diverse populations with a wide range of difficulties. In October I will be starting my Doctorate in Clinical Psychology at the Institute of Psychiatry at King’s College London, which involves a mixture of teaching, on-the-job clinical training and individual research work. It is funded by the NHS and will qualify me to work as a Clinical Psychologist.This may at face value seem quite a jump from studying MML, but I feel that the MML course was in many ways an excellent preparation for the work I do now. I first started thinking seriously about pursuing a career in psychology in my final year, when I was reading a lot of German Thought, including the writing of Freud and other psychoanalytic theorists. I found this fascinating, and went on to write my final year dissertation on the representation of madness through music in German literature, a theme which I developed further during my MPhil.Being a linguist is all about communication, and that is one of the most important skills you need as a psychologist. The MML course really encouraged me to engage at a variety of levels with different cultures, and the year abroad in particular gave me a brilliant opportunity to develop my interpersonal skills. The fact that the course is demanding and very varied – encompassing not only language, but literature, thought and history as well – meant that I emerged with well-rounded skills, strong initiative and the confidence to tackle complex and challenging situations. This was invaluable preparation for a career which combines ‘hands-on’ people-focused work with research, and which involves working in a large, busy and constantly evolving environment such as the NHS.© 2017 University of CambridgeGillian McFarlandStudent testimonialsI studied French and German at Cambridge from 2004-2008 and now work for the United Nations in the field of International Development. After completing the MML course I pursued further specialized study at Masters level and worked with a community-based youth organization in London before moving overseas. As a Programme Officer with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) my current role - Child Protection Officer in Islamabad, Pakistan - is broadly focused on working alongside the provincial and federal Governments to strengthen the local systems to protect children from violence, abuse and exploitation. The work is quite varied, but my contributions are mainly in the area of strengthening the policy and legislative environment and local institutional capacity to deliver protective services. In any given month I might be involved in a range of projects: for example, reviewing methodology for quantitative and qualitative research; working with colleagues to develop a work plan; preparing and delivering a training for local government counterparts; or conducting a field visit to monitor programme implementation. In the photograph I am with a local colleague in a rural area of Sindh province in Pakistan: we are interviewing community members who are involved in a UNICEF-funded project to learn about their perspectives of the project progress and barriers to implementation.Looking back now, I think that the MML course at Cambridge provided a strong preparation for the work I am involved in at the moment. It enabled me to develop a solid grounding in literature, history, philosophy and language and also to strengthen core skills such as communication, analysis and time management. Consequently, it was a good base on which I could build further knowledge and skills required for the International Development sector. In addition, the rigorous language training received at Cambridge has meant that I have been able to use my skills on a regular basis to communicate with French and German speaking colleagues, donors and Government representatives and allows me to work in a range of different locations in the future.© 2017 University of CambridgeKatherine PowleslandStudent testimonialsI was drawn to languages at school because I loved the combination of structured learning of grammar and vocabulary and the creative freedom inherent in trying to find a way through landscapes as alien as Balzac’s Paris or the psychology of Racine’s Agrippine, mother of Nero, and agonisingly lucid in her growing impotence. At college, a last-minute switch – on the first day of term – from German to Italian ab initio meant I spent Michaelmas term in something of a lucid agony myself as I attempted to master self-expression in another new language, but it was definitely worth it for the fun of exploring Dante’s Inferno.When I graduated in 1991 the economy was in recession, and I was relieved to find that languages really were a positive asset. I started as an account manager in a marketing agency, using my languages every day, and after a few years moved to ICI as research manager for Europe. I travelled a lot, and whilst English was the internal language, I would speak the local language in less formal situations wherever I could. I made some good friends like this, and it definitely increased my visibility in the company. I was promoted to global head of Insight, a job that integrated systematic and creative thinking – the two things I’d loved about languages at school.Whilst I no longer needed to use my European languages on a day to day basis in the global job, I was working constantly with language per se through exploration of the languages of consumption and advertising. I began to get increasingly interested in wider questions of persuasion and perception and, following an MA in Creative Writing, I came back to Cambridge in 2011 to take the MPhil in European Literature and Culture.Now I’m in the second year of a PhD, working in the emerging field of digital poetics and researching interactivity in Dante’s Commedia, a fully-funded project which straddles the Department of Italian and the Faculty of Computing. It’s an experimental project whose approach owes much to my early training as a linguist: mastering a new system or set of protocols (in this case, coding and videogame mechanics); interrogating that system critically; then playing with it or using it creatively.Learning languages, I would say, certainly taught me critical reasoning skills and creative, interpretative thinking; but possibly more importantly, it has instilled in me a curiosity to engage with the new and a desire to refresh and keep broadening my perspective that has continually shaped my approach to life. For Dante in the Commedia, despite Nimrod’s act of defiance in constructing Babel, there is good to be found in our response to the resultant fragmentation of languages: by learning one another’s, we learn different ways of perceiving the world.© 2017 University of CambridgeKatya AndruszStudent testimonialsA Londoner with languages I cannot overemphasise the difference that studying language has made to my life. I read Russian and German at Cambridge and despite the fact that at the time I was more interested in Tolstoy than in my future career, it was my knowledge of languages that enabled me first to make a living and then to make a better living than I would have done had I remained in the UK.I was still in Berlin when I began learning Polish in my late twenties for a new job in Warsaw, and it was the essays I had had to write in Russian and the course I’d taken in my final year on Slavonic philology that meant I could recognise the similarities and pick up vocabulary. I can’t say it was easy – that would be a barefaced lie! But it was possible. And now, reading the Polish press and listening to parliamentary debates, I’m certain that understanding Poland is key to understanding Europe.When I moved from Warsaw to Vienna to take up a position as speechwriter, communicator and general Person Friday for all things written, I wondered whether my languages would be less useful. But the advantages of speaking fluent German in a German-speaking country with many native speakers as close colleagues cannot be overestimated. It isn’t just that I can write e-mails in German and give interviews to the media. It’s much more.I get so tired of hearing English native speakers on both sides of the Atlantic saying: “Why should I learn a foreign language? The others have to learn English anyway.” If you don’t speak or have any understanding of the language and culture of the people you’re dealing with, whether in diplomatic negotiations, with business clients, with colleagues at work, or with friends in a bar, you will never really understand their point of view. You may laugh at others’ quaint mistakes when they speak English. But has it ever occurred to you that perhaps they don’t really care? Because for them, English is just a means of basic communication, and they’ll leave the subtleties until they’re in a group in which they can switch to French or Japanese or Arabic.That’s one part of it. But for me, a language isn’t just a more articulate way of waving my hands in the air to make my needs understood. The literature, the films, the proverbs, the jokes, the rhymes, that horrible Slavonic habit of using the genitive for no apparent reason – they’re an entire culture, a universe all of their own. And being able to mediate between those universes means so much. When colleagues say it’s good to have a communications expert, I sometimes catch myself looking over my shoulder to see whom they’re talking about. But it’s true; I am. Whether writing, researching, editing or translating, I’m constantly asking myself who my audience is, what will interest them, why, and how much needs explaining to ensure clarity but avoid condescension. It’s not easy – but then, neither was the MML Tripos.© 2017 University of CambridgeMark AustinStudent testimonialsI’m now a conductor and pianist, and perform in the UK and around the world in venues ranging from the Opéra National de Paris to the Shanghai Oriental Arts Centre. I am artistic director of my own Faust Chamber Orchestra, and regularly lead educational projects for children of all ages and backgrounds. During my university application process I was uncertain whether to study music or languages, but in the end MML was absolutely the right choice. I now use my languages regularly, whether working with foreign colleagues, or performing operas in their original languages. As a conductor, knowledge of cultural background and historical context is essential to gain a full understanding of the music. Following my BA in French and German and MPhil I have since studied Italian - the most important language for opera. My year abroad in Germany (studying Chinese on an Erasmus place) left me with the sense of a world to discover. After Cambridge I went on to a Masters and a Junior Fellowship at the Royal Academy of Music, where I’m now on the staff.In my career as a conductor I require a wide variety of abilities beyond the primary musical ones. These include people skills, leadership, decision-making, business understanding, presentational ability, marketing and fundraising, and lateral thinking. All of these draw heavily on what I learned during my languages degree. The critical thinking required for essays and approaching secondary texts is precisely the skill I use every day to evaluate competing artistic and strategic options. And the sheer breadth of the languages course, including oral skills, translation, synthesis and original argument, and dare I say it, the occasional need to absorb material very quickly, means that I am able to meet a daily range of challenges with confidence.MML was ideal for my conducting career, but I see now that it would have been advantageous whatever I ended up doing. We all developed the ability to master a topic quickly, to address groups of people confidently, and to enjoy rigorous discussions and respectful disagreements. These are the right skills for a whole range of careers and I’m so grateful for the large number of options my MML degree made available to me.© 2017 University of CambridgeRosie SargeantStudent testimonialsAs is to be expected, studying Languages at Cambridge is a step up from A Level, but everyone understands this and would never let you struggle unaided. I particularly enjoyed studying considerably more literature than at school (I went to a state grammar school) and feeling more ‘in touch’ with the countries in which the languages I studied are spoken through reading contemporary articles, considering topical issues and watching current programmes and films. I could never have imagined that in such a short space of time I could cover so much ground – from medieval poetry to modern-day film – and continue to find studying languages so fascinating. This year, for example, I wrote about the early modern literary fascination with ugliness in one paper, and the widespread presence of surveillance technology in modern German film in another. Modern and Medieval Languages is such a wide-ranging course that there is certainly something for everyone – in fact, most of us found it difficult to choose where to specialise because everything sounded so interesting!I think MML is a particularly good choice of degree discipline because students become exceptionally well-rounded and cultured, especially after spending a year in another European country (definitely the highlight of being a Languages student!). Having worked at an investment bank during my Year Abroad, I feel I have an advantage over many of my peers, many of whom will first experience ‘real life’ outside of university once they graduate. In fact, the firm offered me a full-time job on completion of my degree, which placed me in an excellent position to begin my final year. In my experience, language students who have been through the challenge of living abroad tend to be some of the most diverse, mature and considerate people, and I feel that these traits are cultivated by the stimulating nature and variety of the course taught at Cambridge.© 2017 University of CambridgeVisit UsUndergraduates  The best time to visit the Cambridge Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages is on one of our Open Days. The Faculty holds an Open Day annually in March and also participates in the summer Cambridge Open Days. We invite you to come and meet us on one of these occasions. The Faculty and its Library will be open for you to have a look around, and there will be lecturers and current students available on the information stand all day to answer your questions. We also put on sample lectures and a course information presentation.For more information and to book places on the open days, please visit our Open Days page.You can also visit College Open Days, some of which run MML/Linguistics subject-sessions.You can also attend our subject-specific Masterclasses, which provide you with a taste of undergraduate teaching as well as an opportunity to learn more about our degree course and admissions.  For more information on these taster days, please visit the Subject Masterclasses page.Outside open days, please contact us for advice on how and when visits might be arranged, and for further information on our various outreach activities. Further Information and EnquiriesFaculty of Modern & Medieval Languages
Raised Faculty Building
University of Cambridge
Sidgwick Avenue
Cambridge
CB3 9DAHow to find us+44 (0) 1223 335000For general enquires: facultyoffice@mml.cam.ac.ukFor more specific questions about the courses and our work with schools: schools-liaison [at] mml.cam.ac.uk© 2017 University of CambridgeWhat is Cambridge like?Undergraduates Cambridge is a unique and historic university with an international reputation for teaching and research. Whilst some find this enticing, others may not be sure if Cambridge is the type of place for them. Yet, every year, thousands of students, from all walks of life, apply to study at Cambridge, and go on to have lasting and life-changing experiences which benefit their personal lives and careers.  See here for questions about student life in Cambridge.Be Cambridge is a site that is dedicated to showing prospective applicants what Cambridge is really like. It casts aside the university's reputation and deals with the stories and experiences of genuine students from across the country, and from very different backgrounds, who have applied for and gone on to study at Cambridge. The site also explains the application process. Watch the stories of four MML (Modern and Medieval Language) freshers as they move to Cambridge.Read more at: http://www.cam.ac.uk/news/reel-students Watch a short film about what it feels like to study Modern and Medieval Languages and Linguistics at the University of Cambridge. An impressionist take on the subjective and intellectual experience of being a student.How to Apply© 2017 University of CambridgeHow You LearnWhat is Cambridge like?As a student of MML, you will have more ‘contact hours’ than some of your friends taking other humanities subjects, but you will also spend lots of your time reading and working independently.  But there are lots of resources to help you and comfortable spaces to work in.  You will soon find your favourites, whether it’s your College Library, the MML Faculty Library, one of the University Library’s big reading rooms, the Language Centre or a quick hour between lectures at a café near the Faculty.    MML Faculty LibraryThe Modern and Medieval Languages Library supports teaching and learning in European languages, literatures and cultures and in linguistics. The Library holds over 115,000 books and 3,500 films as well as European magazines and newspapers, e-books, e-journals and a small selection of scholarly print journals. MML undergraduates should find all the material they need for their studies in these collections. As well as offering a quiet location for independent study, it organises tea breaks, and offers help with bibliographies and study skills.Cambridge University LibraryFrom as early as the middle of the fourteenth century, the University of Cambridge owned and kept in its treasury a collection of books. Since 1710, the Cambridge University Library has been among the nine privileged libraries of copyright  in the UK: it is legally entitled to a copy of every book published in this country. It is now home to over 8 million books, journals and other items, and has one of the largest collections on open shelves in Europe.With over two million volumes housed on open shelves, you can benefit from immediate access and unparalleled opportunities for browsing. Uniquely for a legal deposit library, much of its collection may be borrowed by students. The Library is ideal for in-depth research, and there are seven large reading rooms perfect for private study. Many of its collections can also be accessed online, so that you can use the UL wherever you are.  It runs tours throughout the year and subject specific research skills classes to help you navigate the collections.Online resourcesAll your courses make resources and materials available on Moodle, the Virtual Learning Environment. Online resources (often custom developed by members of the Faculty) provide essential support to language courses and opportunities for independent study.The Language CentreIndependent from the Faculty and open to all members of the University, the Language Centre supports the teaching and learning of languages throughout the University. If you want to learn another language, there is the option of taking a course at the Language Centre to obtain a further qualification. Courses are available in basic and intermediate Arabic, Mandarin, Japanese, Persian, Swahili and Urdu; and in basic, intermediate and advanced French, German, Italian, Modern Greek, Portuguese Russian and Spanish.  In addition, the Language Centre can help you find a conversation partner, and has extensive resources for the independent study of pretty much any world language.What is Cambridge like?© 2017 University of CambridgeHow We TeachWhat is Cambridge like?The Cambridge system is unique, and we teach in many ways, so you benefit from a rich combination of methods: from the intimacy of small group 'supervisions', to medium-sized seminar discussions, language classes, and larger lectures. We are proud of our commitment to teaching, and love working with our students as they develop their ideas.Language classesMost of our language classes are taught by native speakers. The Faculty arranges language classes, typically with 10-18 students, that develop your confidence to use the language, both in writing and speaking. We will look at grammar, syntax, idiomatic expression and your skills in translation, both to and from the language. In addition, you will have regular oral practice in smaller groups, typically in pairs.  In your second year, you may well take an ‘audio-visual’ class in your post-A Level language, which will develop your comprehension skills in advance of the Year Abroad and provide an opportunity to engage with contemporary cultural issues. In your final year you will have classes in translation and a course on cultural issues focusing on identity.SupervisionsFor each of the courses you follow in literature, culture, history, and linguistics and for many language classes you will have regular (usually fortnightly) ‘supervisions’ in small groups, typically in pairs.  Supervisions are the unique hallmark of the Cambridge education.  The supervisions are led by lecturers, professors, and advanced PhD students who specialise in the area that you are studying – so you could find yourself discussing Baudelaire’s poetry or Nietzsche’s philosophy one-to-one with somebody who has just published a book on it. You will typically write a short essay for each supervision, which you will discuss, as well as considering the topic in general. For language supervisions you will be able to explore points of grammar, translation issues and idiomatic expressions in more detail. This is an exciting form of teaching: intensive, exploratory and led by you. It offers potentially the most stimulating kind of education there is.Lectures and SeminarsThe Faculty runs lectures which support your studies. Typically, there is a sequence of lectures (1-2 per week) for each course you follow.  Some courses might use a mixture of lectures and seminars. Lectures provide background, signposts, models of critical approaches, and introduce you to new concepts and ideas. They are the beginning of your exploration of a given topic and do not provide ‘all the answers.’ Lectures will orient you in a topic and provide stimulation for your independent reading, study and thinking.How You Learn© 2017 University of CambridgeThe benefits of Studying Modern GreekHome*This page is currently being updated*    Dear Liana and Regina  Thank you again for everything you have done for us this year! I just wanted to say again that you have both been the most wonderful and caring supervisors, especially in comparison to many other supervisors I've had at Cambridge who often seem too busy with their own work to have much time for their students. You've given us a lot of your time and made us feel like you genuinely cared about us. I've really enjoyed all our classes and supervisions (and film nights!) and am so glad I decided to take this course.Dear Regina and Liana,I've emailed Sarah to let her know that unfortunately I can't make the garden party on Monday, as I won't be in Cambridge, so I just wanted to take this opportunity instead to say thank you for all of your work over the last year. I've really enjoyed the course, and it has been very satisfying to gain a real insight into Greek language and culture. I feel that I have learnt things this year which are truly relevant to the wider world, and which have really broadened my horizens and understanding not only of Greece, but also of modern Europe in general, so thank you once again.Dear Regina and Lianna, I would just like to say a huge thank you for everything you have done for me over the last year. You might like to know that I got my highest mark in your paper. I absolutely loved the Modern Greek Course. You have both brought alive the language and the literature for me and I feel more connected than ever with my Greek roots.In Easter 2017 I shall be off to Greece for a few months to continue my love affair with the country and hopefully I will become fluent in the language at the end of my stay. My plan is to find some work, most probably voluntary, in a museum in Athens or Thessaloniki - or even a big island like Crete or Corfu. As you may recall, museums are another passion of mine, which I explored in my dissertation. If you know of anyone in this sector in Greece or have any recommendations, I would greatly appreciate your advice.I really cannot thank you both enough for what you have given me in my final year at Cambridge. Your passion and presence as two important female figures in my academic journey have meant a great deal to me. Please click here to view the Faculty's webpage for prospective Undergraduate students for information on Open Days, course costs, what it's like at Cambridge and much more!                                                                                                                          © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeLI14Section CThis paper runs in alternate years and is suspended for the academic year 2017-18.Aims ScopeMichaelmas Term
1. External history of French and periodisation
2. The processes of standardisation: selection and elaboration
3. The processes of standardisation: codification and acceptance
4. Textual evidence: the earliest texts I
5. Textual evidence: the earliest texts II
6. Textual evidence: Anglo-Norman and versification
7. Textual evidence: Middle French
8. Sociolinguistic approaches: evidence for variationLent Term
1. Introduction to morpho-syntactic change in French
2. Theories and approaches: the history of word order
3. Interrogative clauses
4. Negation
5. Personal pronouns
6. Determiners
7. Past tenses
8. Mood and modalityAyres-Bennett, Wendy, 1996. A History of the French Language through Texts, London and New York: Routledge.Lodge, Anthony, 1993. French. From Dialect to Standard, London: Routledge.Marchello-Nizia, Christiane, 1999. Le français en diachronie : douze siècles d'évolution, Ophrys: Gap.Posner, Rebecca, 1997. Language Change in French, Oxford: OUP.Rickard, Peter, 1989. A History of the French Language, London: Routledge.The teaching will be divided into two parts which will be reflected in the two sections of the examination paper. In the Michaelmas Term students will be introduced to the external history of French, to the textual evidence for the study of historical French linguistics, to the standardisation and codification of French, and to sociolinguistic variation in earlier periods of the language. In the Lent Term the lectures will cover topics in the history of French morphology and syntax and will evaluate the explanations which have been offered for any changes.You will receive sixteen lectures in total, eight in Michaelmas Term and eight in Lent Term. You will also have eight supervisions, normally three during Michaelmas Term, four in Lent Term and one in Easter Term. There will also be four classes on how to read Old French texts.The paper's Moodle site can be found here. Please contact the paper coordinator or department secretary for the enrolment password.Assessment will be by a three-hour written examination.© 2017 University of CambridgeLI18Section CThis paper is available for the academic year 2017-18.This paper provides an introduction to computational linguistics, covering the fundamental techniques which can be used to model linguistic phenomena computationally at the levels of morphology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics. Students are taught how such techniques are implemented, evaluated and applied to natural language processing (NLP) tasks. An overview of the use of such techniques is provided, along with an introduction to several applications (e.g. machine translation, summarisation and dialogue systems). At the end of the course, students will understand basic computational linguistics techniques as well as their limitations and current performance levels when applied to linguistic research and to real-world tasks.The course will follow the main text book used for Computational Linguistics worldwide: Speech and Language Processing - An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, and Speech Recognition by Daniel Jurafsky and James. H. Martin (2008, Second Edition, Prentice-Hall). This book will be accessible to all those taking the paper. More specialised reading is listed in each chapter of the book and the relevant readings will be introduced to students during the lectures. These materials are freely available on the Web (and will be downloadable as pdf documents).Proposed lecture schedule/topics to be covered:Michaelmas Term1. Introduction: Brief history of NLP research, current applications, generic NLP system architecture 
2. Regular Expressions and Automata 
3. Words, Transducers and N-grams
4. Part-of-Speech Tagging
5. Formal Grammars of English and Syntactic Parsing 
6. Statistical Parsing
7. Features and Unification
8. Language and ComplexityLent Term9. The Representation of Meaning
10. Computational Semantics 
11. Lexical Semantics
12. Computational Lexical Semantics
13. Computational Discourse
14. Dialogue and Conversational Agents
15. Applications I: Information Extraction, Summarisation
16. Applications II: Question-Answering, Machine TranslationDaniel Jurafsky and James Martin, Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, and Speech Recognition. 2nd edn, available online: https://www.cs.colorado.edu/~martin/slp.htmlThe first part will provide an introduction to the course, and cover morphological and syntactic processing of language as well as discuss issues of language and complexity. The second part will focus on computational semantics and pragmatics, and introduce some well-known NLP applications.You will receive sixteen lectures in total, eight in Michaelmas Term and eight in Lent Term. You will also have eight supervisions, normally three during Michaelmas Term, four in Lent Term and one in Easter Term.The paper's Moodle site can be found here. Please contact the department secretary for the enrolment password.The paper's Moodle site can be found here. Please contact the paper coordinator or department secretary for the enrolment password.Assessment will be by a three-hour written examination.© 2017 University of CambridgeLI8Section CThis paper is available for the academic year 2017-18.Li8: Morphology offers a concise overview of morphological variation in the languages of the world, provides an introduction to the descriptive and theoretical models that have been developed to analyze this variation, and summarizes the main sources of experimental and other external evidence for the evaluation of models and the validation of their claims.The course highlights the substantive ideas about word structure and grammatical organization that underlie current morphological models and identifies any typological biases or independent theoretical commitments. Students are taught standard techniques of morphological analysis and are expected to gain facility in interpreting and evaluating analyses from different theoretical perspectives. A variety of languages are analyzed, and students are offered the opportunity to investigate questions raised in the course in relation to languages with which they are familiar or in which they have an interest.MichaelmasLi8.1  The demarcation of morphologyLi8.2  Patterns and arrangementsLi8.3  Systems of inflectionLi8.4  Varieties of derivationLi8.5  Inflectional paradigms, families and seriesLi8.6  Derivational familiesLi8.7  Morphemic analysisLi8.8  The agglutinative ideal LentLi8.9  Exponence as realizationLi8.10  Syncretism and referralLi8.11  Autonomous morphologyLi8.12  Implicational modelsLi8.13  Morphology as a complex systemLi8.14  Diachrony and explanationLi8.15  Typological implicationsLi8.16  Sources of external evidence16 one-hour lectures, 8 one-hour supervisions.The paper's Moodle site can be found here. Please contact the department secretary for the enrolment password.Assessment will be by a three-hour exam at the end of the academic year.© 2017 University of CambridgeThe MPhil in Theoretical and Applied LinguisticsPostgraduate study in DTALThe course integrates study of linguistic theory, broadly understood, and applied linguistics, in a single programme. It provides great variety and flexibility of content, with subject-specific training and the opportunity for diverse intellectual interactions. These can occur across the wide range of research specialisms represented in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (TAL) and beyond - especially elsewhere in the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages (MML). Thus, students can explore theoretical and descriptive linguistics (e.g. the syntactic organization, or sound structure and phonetics, of different languages, or the principles that govern the historical development of languages); they can study how linguistics and phonetics can be applied to areas such as language acquisition, language processing, data mining of language corpora, or forensics; and they can choose to look at linguistics from the point of view of a specific language or language family (e.g. Italian linguistics, Germanic linguistics, etc.). Those who wish to focus their study in a particular language area can select courses that constitute a 'Pathway' in that area, such as Celtic Linguistics or English Linguistics. Most students will pursue the MPhil through the combined route, involving assessed essays as well as a thesis, but some may wish to be considered for the thesis-only route.The combined route is intended for students who wish to extend and deepen their existing knowledge of the language sciences and their application. It often serves as a bridge between undergraduate study and doctoral research, but is also suitable as a self-contained one-year course of study. The structure of the combined route aims to promote breadth of knowledge in linguistics and depth in selected areas.The thesis-only route is for students whose knowledge of linguistics is already substantial, and who already know the area they wish to research for their thesis. To be eligible for consideration for the thesis-only route to the MPhil, a student will need (a) a broad foundation in linguistics, with depth in at least some subfields, and (b) a clear idea of the area in which the thesis will be written. Students taking this route will follow some elements of the MPhil programme as described below under ‘Course structure and examination’, but formal assessment is by a 30,000 word thesis alone submitted in June. Progress will be monitored through the year by work submitted according to a schedule specified by TAL. Applications for the MPhil course (either route) are welcomed from those who have or expect to obtain a good undergraduate degree (a first, or at least a high 2.1, in the UK system, or the equivalent elsewhere). Many students move straight into the MPhil after their first degree, but others come to it after a number of years away from formal study, sometimes in teaching posts related to languages, but also in other careers. Students taking the MPhil are expected have spent some time studying linguistics or related subjects at undergraduate level; but, occasionally, exceptions may be considered. Non-native English speakers must have passed an English Language Proficiency test at the required level. The following examinations with minimum scores are accepted: IELTS 7.5 (min 7 in each unit), TOEFL internet based test 110 (min 25 for each section - Listening, Writing, Reading and Speaking). No other English language examinations are accepted.Candidates are advised to apply in well advance of the funding deadlines listed on the Graduate Office 'Applying to MML' page. You will have to submit a sample of writing in English of approximately 3,000 words.The MPhil programme (combined route) is structured progressively to form a bridge between undergraduate study and possible further research. Its balance changes through the year so that in the first two months (Michaelmas Term - October to December) there is instruction through lectures, whilst by the last three months students are carrying out independent research full-time.All students are required to follow a course in 'Research Methods' and a statistics course to acquire skills needed for research and 'transferable' skills. Beyond that, each student will follow his or her own 'Study Plan', which allows the individual interests, needs, and strengths of the student to be met. At the start of the course the student, with advice if needed from the Director of the MPhil and subject specialists, draws up a Study Plan for the Michaelmas and Lent Terms (October to March) which is approved by the Department. This will include the selection of a minimum of four introductory taught courses to be followed in Michaelmas, and participation in a minimum of two research seminars in Lent Term. Usually the Lent Term seminars chosen build on courses which have been followed in Michaelmas.Assessment essays written in Michaelmas and over the Christmas vacation will be based on the Michaelmas taught courses. One of the Lent research seminars will normally relate to the thesis, and the other is assessed by an oral presentation (which provides an opportunity to develop communication skills). By default, the Course Director will initially act as supervisor, but once a thesis topic has been chosen in Lent Term, a subject specialist will be appointed. From Easter until June, students can concentrate full time on the thesis.The course structure allows great flexibility in combining areas and approaches. It provides for tailored combinations of work in any of the areas of theoretical, applied, and descriptive linguistics, ranging for instance from formal semantics to experimental phonetics and phonology, from language acquisition to computational linguistics, and from Welsh syntax to the history of linguistics in France. A piece of work may have as its focus the development of an argument in linguistic theory, the description of some aspect of a language or its use, the psycholinguistic testing of alternative linguistic analyses, the application of linguistic theory to the history of a language or languages, the acoustic description of sound systems, and so on. The various pieces of work may relate to any language or combination of languages subject to adequate advice and facilities being available for the topic in question. Some students may wish to specialise and opt for a 'Pathway'relating to a particular language or language family.The thesis demands independent study under the guidance of the supervisor and will involve a substantial piece of original research. A proposed title and summary for the 20,000 word thesis, formulated in discussion with the supervisor, must be submitted in mid-February, and this will be subject to approval by the Department of Linguistics, the supervisor, and the Faculty's Degree Committee. Because seminars finish at the end of Lent term, students can then devote themselves full time to research for the thesis during the Easter vacation and the Easter Term (April to June). The thesis is submitted on the seventh Thursday of Easter Full Term, and about two to three weeks later there may be an oral examination on the thesis at the discretion of the examiners.Applicants may find it useful to look at the staff research interests, and at those of others in the Faculty with interests in linguistics, to find out more about potential supervisors in their fields of interest.Most of the following Lent Term research seminars will be available in any given year (a minimum of 2 students is required for the seminar to run):The thesis will normally be based on one of these seminars. In addition students will give an oral presentation on the topic of a second seminar at the end of Lent Term. The presentation should aim at the general audience rather than subject specialists. The presentation will be assessed on the content by the subject specialist and on presentation by two other members of the Faculty.The following language-specific pathways will normally be available:To fulfil a pathway, a student must write the MPhil thesis and at least two of the essays on a topic which is clearly within the language area chosen. The choice of courses attended in Michaelmas and Lent Terms will reflect that pathway. Following a pathway in 'language X' will allow the student to opt, if he or she wishes, for the informal designation of the degree as 'MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (X)', where 'X' might be 'Slavonic' or 'French'). (Formally, however, the University merely awards the degree of MPhil.)The scheme of examination for the one-year course of study in Linguistics for the degree of Master of Philosophy shall consist of:(a) a thesis not exceeding 20,000 words in length, including footnotes, but excluding tables, appendices, and bibliography, on a subject approved by the Degree Committee for the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages;(b) four essays of which three shall be no more than 2,000 words in length, and one shall be no more than 4,000 words in length, each including footnotes, but excluding tables, appendices, and bibliography, on subjects either approved or prescribed by the Degree Committee;(c) an oral presentation on the topic of the second seminar in Lent Term.The examination shall include an oral examination on the thesis and on the general field of knowledge in which it falls, and, at the discretion of the Examiners, on the essays submitted by the candidate; save that the Examiners may, at their discretion, waive the requirement for an oral examination. The scheme of examination for the one-year course of study in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics for the degree of Master of Philosophy shall consist of:a thesis of not more than 30,000 words in length, including footnotes, but excluding tables, appendices, and bibliography, on a topic approved by the Degree Committee not later than the end of the Full Michaelmas Term preceding the examination.The examination shall include an oral examination on the thesis and on the general field of knowledge within which it falls. The thesis shall provide evidence to satisfy the Examiners that the candidate can design and carry out investigations, assess and interpret the results obtained, and place the work in the wider perspective of the subject.© 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil in LinguisticsMPhil in Theoretical and Applied LinguisticsCourses are offered by the following departments: Linguistics (Li), French (F), Italian (I), German & Dutch (G&D), Slavonic (Sl), Spanish and Portuguese (SP), Anglo-Saxon, Norse & Celtic (ASNC).
Further courses or directed reading may be available according to demandClick on the links for information on the courses. Ignore information about examinations which applies to undergraduates only.Students are allowed to choose at most two courses from Group B.¹ Only one of the Hispanic courses will normally be available in any one academic year.
*Not available in 2017-18.
**Only ONE will normally be available in a given academic year.
*** Only ONE will normally be available in a given academic year.See also information on the available pathways.Back to MPhil course description © 2017 University of CambridgePhD in Theoretical and Applied LinguisticsPostgraduate study in DTALIn British universities the PhD ('Doctorate of Philosophy') is traditionally awarded solely on the basis of a dissertation, a substantial piece of writing which reports original research into a closely defined area of enquiry. Candidates for the PhD in Cambridge are guided by a Supervisor, though they will normally also discuss their work with a number of other experts in their field. The nature of the work depends on topic. Within linguistics, some PhD students may do most of their work in libraries, or spend part of their time collecting and analysing data, or carry out experiments in the phonetics laboratory or psycholinguistics laboratory. The dissertation must make a significant contribution to learning, for example through the discovery of new knowledge, the connection of previously unrelated facts, the development of new theory or the revision of older views. The completion of a PhD dissertation is standardly expected to take three years, and most funding for PhD students is based on this assumption.Students registered for the PhD in the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics will normally have one of the staff of the Department as Supervisor, though sometimes specialists outside the Department will fulfil this role.Prospective applicants can get an idea of the range of topics which can be supervised from the description of staff research interests, the list of members of the Faculty, and from the topics of current PhD students; but, since by definition doctoral research must be original, they should not hesitate to discuss with the Department ideas within or across areas of Linguistics which are not explicitly represented in these places.Applications must be accompanied by a research proposal of approximately 500 to 1000 words. This should outline a topic of research which the applicant has chosen, and the method for investigating it. Applicants are advised to discuss their proposal informally with the Department before submitting it. The research proposal will form the basis of a PhD student's research, but naturally may be modified as the research proceeds.Candidates are advised to apply well in advance of the funding deadlines listed on the Graduate Office 'Applying to MML' page.All students belong to two of the department’s research areas. One of these will be the primary area of research and the other a related field. Each area organises two half-day events per year which provide the opportunity to hear invited speakers and to present students' work. Students are also be expected to get involved in organising the events for their major area.All students must attend a prescribed amount of research training each year. Their personal programme for each year should be discussed with their supervisor. The Faculty's research training programme provides many useful courses, some of which are compulsory. In addition, the department organises two research training sessions per term with topics of particular interest to linguistics PhD students. These are compulsory for all PhD students registered in the Department. All enquiries about these should be made to Dr David Willis.There are a limited number of places available on the department's QMALD statistics training lectures. Students wishing to attend should register with the Graduate Secretary, Louise Radok. See also the courses provided by ACTL (Advanced Core Training in Linguistics)© 2017 University of CambridgePhD Students in the DepartmentDTAL
   © 2017 University of CambridgeHomeThe Department very much welcomes graduate students, both at the level of M.Phil. (Masters) and at the level of Ph.D. (Doctorate). Please follow one of the links below for information relevant to the type of course you wish to follow: Ph.D. (Doctorate) M.Phil. (Masters), which runs from October to JunePlease click on the links on the left/above for information on course content and resources.Quick links:The Faculty also runs two other research MPhil courses: © 2017 University of CambridgeUndergraduate TimetablesUndergraduatesThis page contains undergraduate timetables for Michaelmas and Easter terms. Please follow the links to access the pdf versions.Please note: the pdf's will not be updated throughout the year. For up-to-date information on timetables and to download a personalised timetable to your mobile device please use the online timetable here: https://2017-18.timetable.cam.ac.uk/
Remember to set the time zone on your device to GMT.Part I timetable: Michaelmas 2017Part I timetable: Lent 2018Part II timetable: Michaelmas 2017Part II timetable: Lent 2018© 2017 University of CambridgeDTALThe Linguistics Tripos provides the opportunity to concentrate on language as a phenomenon and on the ways languages can be analysed.The one-year Part I provides a general introduction to all areas of linguistics, while the two-year Part II allows a degree of specialisation in particular areas.In both IIA and IIB there is a choice of lectures taught within and beyond the Department, the latter including the linguistics of particular languages. Part IIB includes an element of individual research in the form of a dissertation on a chosen topic.Students may also switch to Part II of the Linguistics Tripos after successful completion of a Part I in another Tripos. The Linguistics Tripos does not require detailed knowledge of a particular language, and so the course is accessible to those who have a general interest in and knowledge of language.The Tripos is divided into two parts, the examination for Part I normally being taken at the end of the first year, with examinations for Part IIA and IIB at the end of the second and third years. Final degree classification is based on the Part IIB result.FOUR papers, comprising:Paper Li.1 - Sounds and wordsPaper Li.2 - Structures and meaningsPaper Li.3 - Language, brain and societyPaper Li.4 - History and varieties of EnglishFOUR papers to be chosen from Section C and Section DFOUR papers, comprising:Paper Li.1 - Sounds and words †Paper Li.2 - Structures and meanings †TWO papers to be chosen from Section C and Section D† If this paper has already been taken in another tripos it cannot be taken again and another paper must be chosen from Sections C and D.THREE papers, comprising:Paper Li.5 - Linguistic TheoryTWO papers to be chosen from Section C and Section DA dissertation© 2017 University of CambridgePart IUndergraduatesIn Part I of the Linguistics Tripos, you take the following four introductory papers:Li.1: Sounds and wordsLi.2: Structures and meaningsLi.3: Language, brain and societyLi.4: History and varieties of EnglishMore information on each course is provided via the links.For each paper you will receive 16 lectures (eight each in the Michaelmas and Lent Terms). You wil also have 13 supervisions for each paper (six each in the Michaelmas and Lent Terms and one during the Easter Term). You will be expected to produce six pieces of work for each paper during both the Michaelmas and Lent Terms, two of which will be essays. Supervisions are organised centrally by the Department.Supervisions at Part I will take place in groups of approximately 5 or 6 students. Your supervisor will contact you at the beginning of each term to arrange supervisions.You will be assessed by written examination during the Easter Term. There will be one 3-hour examination per paper and you will be required to answer three questions. The exam papers will comprise two sections, the first having two compulsory data questions, and the second having a choice of essay questions. Past exam papers are available on Moodle.© 2017 University of CambridgePart IIUndergraduatesPart II is subdivided into Part IIA and IIB. In both years you choose from a wide range of papers including those dealing with different linguistic levels and perspectives.In Part IIA you take four optional papers from the Part II papers offered by the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (Section C) and those offered by other departments (borrowed papers - Section D).If you transfer into Part IIA of the Linguistics Tripos after completing Part I in another tripos, you will take two of the introductory papers from Part I of the Linguistics Tripos (Li1 Sounds and words and Li2 Structures and meanings), unless you have already taken these papers.In Part IIB, in addition to choosing two new papers from Sections C & D, you will take a compulsory general theory paper (Li5 Linguistic Theory) and during the year you will write a dissertation on a topic of your choice.All papers are taught via 16 hours of lectures and all (except the Linguistic Theory Paper, Li5) have 8 supervisions.For some papers, practical classes will be offered by the Department in addition to the regular teaching and supervisions. These classes are optional and you will not be disadvantaged in the examination if you do not attend - that is to say, no new content will be introduced in these sessions. Details of practical classes can be found on the relevant page for each paper.Supervisions at Part II are generally organised by the Department but colleges may arrange them if Directors of Studies so wish. This is done at the beginning of the academic year. For papers with larger numbers of students the process of allocation may take up to one week; but you should be reassured that only three supervisions are normally given during the Michaelmas Term and you will not be required to write an essay until after the term is under way. You will be contacted by your supervisors at the beginning of term.For supervision arrangements for papers Li1 Sounds & Words and Li2 Structures & Meanings, please read the page on Part I of the Linguistics Tripos.Preparation for Li5 Linguistic Theory is primarily the same as that for the specialist papers and by a seminar series in the Lent and Easter Terms. No supervisions are provided for the Linguistic Theory paper.You are also entitled to four supervisions for your dissertation.Examination for papers offered by the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics will be by 3 hour written examination during the Easter Term. The format of the examination will vary from paper to paper. Exam papers from previous years and/or specimen exam papers are available on CamTools. Please note that Li6 Phonetics also includes a practical exam, for which students will have to register for separately on CamSIS when enrolling for exams.Please contact the relevant department for details on examinations for borrowed papers.© 2017 University of CambridgePapers offered by the DepartmentPart IIFor students following the Linguistics Tripos in Part I, you should choose a total of four papers from Section C and Section D.For students following another Tripos at Part 1, you must take four papers, comprising of:† If this paper has already been taken in another tripos it cannot be taken again and another paper must be chosen from Sections C and D.© 2017 University of CambridgePart IIAPart IIIn Part IIA you take four optional papers from the Part II papers offered by the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (Section C) and those offered by other departments (borrowed papers - Section D).If you transfer into Part IIA of the Linguistics Tripos after completing Part I in another tripos, you will take two of the introductory papers from Part I of the Linguistics Tripos (Li1 Sounds and Words and Li2 Structures and Meanings), unless you have already taken these papers.© 2017 University of CambridgePart IIBPart IIIn Part IIB, in addition to choosing two new papers from Section C and Section D, you will take a compulsory general theory paper (Li5 Linguistic Theory) and during the year you will write a dissertation on a topic of your choice.© 2017 University of CambridgeSection DPart IIFor students following the Linguistics Tripos in Part I, you should choose a total of four papers from Section C and Section D.For students following another Tripos at Part 1, you must take four papers, comprising of:† If this paper has already been taken in another tripos it cannot be taken again and another paper must be chosen from Sections C and D.© 2017 University of CambridgePreliminary readingProspective StudentsThese recommendations for preliminary reading are based on the four Part I papers, which all Linguistics Tripos undergraduates study in their first year. Sounds and WordsCrystal, D. (1997) The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language (Chapters 27-29, 40). Cambridge University Press.
Pinker, S. (1995) The language instinct (Chapters 5 & 6). Penguin.
Ashby, M. & Maidment, J. (2005) Introducing Phonetic Science. Cambridge University Press.
Davenport, M. & Hannahs, S.J. (2005) Introducing Phonetics and Phonology. Hodder Education.
International Phonetic Association (1999) Handbook of the International Phonetic Association. Cambridge University Press.Structures and MeaningsAitchison, J. 2003 Words in the mind: An introduction to the mental lexicon Oxford: Blackwell. Third edition.
Baker, M. 2001 Atoms of Language Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Larson, R. 2010 Grammar as Science Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Levinson, S.C 1983 Pragmatics Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press
Mey, J. L. 2001 Pragmatics: An introduction Oxford: Blackwell. Second edition.
Pinker, S. 2007 The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window into Human Nature New York: Viking
Tallerman, M. 1998/2005 Understanding syntax London: Arnold.Language, Brain and SocietyCrystal, D. 2004. The stories of English. London: Allen Lane (Penguin Books).
Harley, T. A. 2008 [1995]. The psychology of language: From data to theory. Hove: Psychology Press.
Holmes, J. 2001 [1992]. An introduction to sociolinguistics. London: Longman.
Mesthrie, R., Swann, J., Deumert, A., & Leap, W. L. 2000. Introducing sociolinguistics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Smith, N. & Tsimpli, I. M. 1995. The mind of a savant: Language learning and modularity. Oxford: Blackwell.
Yang, Charles. 2006. The infinite gift: How children learn and unlearn the languages of the world. New York: Scribner.History and Varieties of EnglishCrystal, D. 2003 [2001]. The Cambridge encyclopedia of the English language. Cambridge: CUP.
Crystal, D. 2002. The English language. London: Penguin.
Denison, D., and Hogg, Richard. 2006. A history of the English language. Cambridge: CUP.
Graddol, D., Leith, D. & Swann, J.. 2002 [1996]. English: History, diversity and change. London: Routledge.
Hughes, A., Trudgill, P. & Watt, D. 2005. English accents and dialects. London: Hodder Arnold.
Kortmann, B. & Upton, C. 2008. Varieties of English: The British Isles. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Van Gelderen, Elly. 2006. A history of the English language. Amsterdam: Benjamins.© 2017 University of CambridgeProspective StudentsUndergraduates In this short video, students and staff talk about what the Linguistics course involves, what makes Linguistics at Cambridge special and some top tips for a successful application.► Watch the video on YouTubeInformation on the undergraduate degree in Linguistics starts at page 14 of the MML Faculty prospectus, or see the Faculty's information for prospective students.Preliminary reading - a list of preliminary reading, based on the first year of the Linguistics course.For more information on the structure of our undergraduate degree in Linguistics, please see the links to the left.© 2017 University of CambridgeCore course - Strand 2MPhil Michaelmas term, Tuesdays, 2-4pm, weeks 1-8 (unless otherwise stated)This seminar will examine the social, political and aesthetics implications of cinema’s transition during the first three decades of the twentieth century from a novelty form to a narrative medium. In doing so, it will consider Tom Gunning’s account of early cinema as displaying an ‘aesthetic of attractions’. We will also examine how the cinema developed its forms of storytelling and representation and how it evolved into a complex industry with Hollywood rapidly acquiring a dominant role. Crucial to this is thinking about changing exhibition practices and the emergence of new acting styles, as well as questions concerning spectatorship, subjectivity, and the codifications of gender and race. D.W. Griffith's Broken Blossoms (1919) will provide an opportunity to examine the consolidation of the Hollywood film industry in the years immediately after the end of the First World War: its product as a narrative cinema founded upon melodrama and the classical continuity system.Screening
ReadingFurther Reading Amongst the many definitions of art, national identity is not a category used very often. And yet, when it comes to cinema, the tendency to define films by their national origin is a default position. Why is that? What makes cinematic art more readily identified by its “nationality”? One of the most immediate answers to this question is the narrative nature of film as an art form that is closely connected to specific places and times that have specific identities. This session will address some of the connections between films and the societies and cultures they depict. By focusing on the small and manifestly ideological cinema of Israel the session will examine some of the elements that make up so-called national cinemas.ScreeningReadingAdditional reading: What does it mean to read a film “in context”? What are the distinctive methods required for a historical analysis of cinema and television? What are the gains of such an approach – and what are its limits? What notions of reality and temporality inform it? Drawing on Nietzsche’s reflections on the uses (and disadvantages) of history, historical materialism and Ideologiekritik as defined by Marx and members of the Frankfurt School, and Foucault’s concept of “counterhistory”, my aim in this seminar is to make a case both for the ineluctable historicity of film and its enormous relevance as a historical source. We will look at the ways in which particular films manifest the specific socio-economic conditions, the power relations, and the collective mentalities of the time in which they were made; but we will also discuss films that were agents in – rather than reflections of – the historical process and examine how they shaped the myths and memories and thus the collective consciousness and the Weltanschauung of a people. Finally, we will talk about the power of cinema and television to define not just our vision of the past, but our very idea of history.Screening:
Reading:
Further reading:Cinema, as Jean-Louis Comolli notes, began as documentary and documentary as cinema. Nevertheless, documentary remains a slippery, marginal filmic mode that pertains to the non-fictional world of knowledge and information while drawing on the resources of fiction, its roots identifiable in both scientific photographic inscription and Modernist avant-garde filmmaking.  From the vantage of point of contemporary documentary filmmaking – seen as a continuation of a cinematic renaissance in the form reaching back to the 1990s – this session will explore the ways in which documentary film’s complex relation to reality may be understood, addressing in particular how today’s “golden age” of documentary may be thought in relation to the genealogy of the mode and its theorizations.By considering a range of critical attempts to define or describe the documentary alongside the work of two contemporary filmmakers, Gianfranco Rosi and Nicholas Philibert, we will consider how cinematic documentary continues to make its historical “truth claim” while employing experimental techniques that complicate the kinds of knowledge promised by the mode. In doing so, this session will attend to issues central to the study of documentary and to that of film more broadly – realism and formalism, indexicality and the digital, spectatorship and subjectivity, narrative and temporality – as well as reflecting on how the increasingly hybrid forms of contemporary documentary both reprise and reinvent earlier cinematic traditions. Screening Reading Further reading Further viewing:  This seminar will explore the ways in which sound and music have been conceptualised and employed in cinema.  Significant (and often mutually resistant) strands in the literature will be surveyed and analyzed with specific reference to Carol Reed's The Third Man (1949) and Yuri Norstein's Tale of Tales (1979), which all students should experience prior to the class. Screening Reading On sound and music  On The Third Man On The Tale of Tales Further readingOn sound and music On The Third Man On The Tale of Tales Geoffrey Kantaris
Date: Thursday 9 November 2017Time: 2-4pm
  This seminar will examine the symbiosis between film and space, with a particular focus on the urban, taken as part of a broader problematic concerned with representations of space and spaces of representation (to use the terms coined by Lefebvre). We will look at theories of urban and global/geopolitical space, from David Harvey and Ed Soja to Fredric Jameson, and consider some key moments in which the mutual constitution of cinema and city is manifest, with a major film from the silent era, a 1950s film noir parody set in Mexico, and a key example of cyberpunk from the 1980s. Screening Reading Further Reading Their strategies will be compared with very different ones employed in other key political films of the 1960s, by Jorge Sanjinés (Bolivia) and Glauber Rocha (Brazil), among others. We will trace how certain techniques associated with Soviet montage, European neorealism or the avantgarde are taken up or reworked in African and Latin American cinemas to create an innovative aesthetics to underpin a politics of liberation. These films continue to incite controversy in our own time for their depiction of political violence and its role in revolution, and/or for their representation of indigenous culture and subjectivity. Made with ‘the camera in one hand and a rock in the other’ (Rocha), many of these films are marked by a sense of immediacy and political exigency that binds them to a certain geopolitical space and a moment in history; nevertheless, their legacy is still evident in political filmmaking in world cinema today. Screening Reading Further Reading  The seminar will consider how film can be used to explore changes in the architectural understanding of space that were central to emergence of the New Architecture after World War I. Starting with the explanation of architectural space offered by Sigfried Giedion's hugely popular Space Time and Architecture, the first half of the session will contrast the spatial composition of Charles Garnier's Opera House, Paris, one of the heroic celebrations of the Beaux Arts approach, with Le Corbusier's Villa Savoye, one of the best-known paradigms of the New Architecture of the 1920s.The second half of the seminar will concentrate on Architectures d'Aujourd'hui (1930), a collaboration between film-maker Pierre Chenal and Le Corbusier. It constitutes Le Corbusier's most tangible foray into film-making and highlights the crucial contribution he made to the field of Cinema and Architecture as one of the first examples of 'narrative expressive space'. This will be illustrated by the analysis of the 'promenade architecturale' scene in the Villa Savoye. Screening Set Reading: Further Reading: Support the Centre for Film and Screen© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeCambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeCambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeCambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeFR13Part IIThis paper is available for the academic year 2017-18.This course, which combines synchronic and historical perspectives, explores the related processes of language variation and language change in the context of French.The course assumes a good prior knowledge of Linguistics and of the French language. Ideally, students will have read paper Fr2 ‘Structures and Varieties of French’ at Part IB.The Michaelmas Term focuses on theories of language change and their application. Traditional approaches (such as the dichotomy between 'internal' and 'external' change) are combined with more recent theoretical frameworks (such as codeswitching, language death), and it is demonstrated that the boundaries between what appear to be very different types of change may in fact often be blurred. The Michaelmas term also introduces the additional dimension of 'unconscious' and 'deliberate' language change, distinguishing between change which occurs without speakers generally being aware of the 'linguistic decisions' they make and instances in which conscious attempts are made to influence the form (and often the status) of a linguistic variety via processes such as language planning and revitalisation.The Lent Term focuses on three themes. It begins by exploring the interface between the French language and questions of identity. The second focus is on French dialectology from the Medieval period to the present day, with special reference to continental and insular Norman and including the Anglo-Norman spoken in Medieval England. The term concludes by considering methodologies for exploring language variation and change in written French.Students wishing to refresh their knowledge of French linguistics may find the following introductory books helpful:A. Battye, M-A. Hintze and P. Rowlett, The French Language Today (Routledge, 2000)R. Lodge, N. Armstrong, Y. Ellis, J. Shelton, Exploring the French Language (Arnold, 1997) More advanced preparatory reading:N. Armstrong and T. Pooley (eds.), Social and Linguistic Change in European French (Palgrave Macmillan, 2010)M.C. Jones and I. Singh, Exploring Language Change (Routledge, 2005)M.C. Jones, Jersey Norman French: A Linguistic Study of an Obsolescent Dialect (Blackwell, 2001)R.D. Grillo, Dominant Languages: Language and Hierarchy in Britain and France (Cambridge University Press, 1989) The full reading list can be found here.The course is taught through weekly lectures and regular supervisions. The paper is assessed via 3-hour written exam. Please see the specimen exam paper for an example of the current format of the paper.© 2017 University of CambridgeCambridge French Graduate ConferenceHomeCall for papersCambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePostgraduate courses in FrenchHomeThe Department very much welcomes graduate students, both at the level of M.Phil. (Masters) and at the level of Ph.D. (Doctorate). Please follow one of the links below for information relevant to the type of course you wish to follow: Ph.D. (Doctorate) M.Phil. (Masters)Quick links:Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeApplications and FundingPostgraduatesInformation on applying, entry requirements and funding can be found here. The requirement for admission to any graduate course is a good honours degree in French or Modern Languages. The standard normally required is that of a first class or high 2.1 degree, or its equivalent. It is also expected that all candidates for a PhD will have achieved a distinction in a masters degree by the time they begin the doctorate.Applicants for the PhD will be called for interview by members of the Department in the Lent (Spring) Term of the year in which they wish to begin their studies. The interview will seek to establish the suitability of the candidate in relation to our resources and specialist interests.Prospective applicants should consult our graduate webpages for information on entry requirement, application deadlines, fees, funding opportunities, and further information relating to graduate study in MML.Prospective applicants for part-time research degrees should contact Martin Crowley for advice before applying; further details of University policy on part-time research degrees may be found here.Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeFormer PhD students in FrenchPhD Students in French Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeFrenchThe Department very much welcomes graduate students for MPhil (Masters) programmes.The French Department participates in all three of the MML Faculty's MPhil courses;​ please follow one of the links below for information relevant to the course you wish to follow.The various essays and the MPhil thesis are all individually supervised, and are considered an excellent preparation for the full-scale research and dissertation of the PhD. In addition, the topic of the MPhil thesis may, and often does, form the foundation of the PhD. Progress from the MPhil to the PhD is, however, not automatic - high marks are expected, particularly in the thesis. Needless to say, we are also very happy to consider candidates wishing to take French options in the MPhil but who may not intend to embark upon further study at PhD level.Within the MPhil, students have the opportunity to take a range of modules from across the MML Faculty, three of which are offered by the French Department: Please contact our Graduate Director, Prof. Bill Burgwinkle, with any questions about Graduate study in the Department of French. Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePhD (Doctorate) ProgrammePostgraduatesThis page contains general information about becoming a research student in French and the paths towards Ph.D. (Doctorate) work. A separate page gives full details of the MPhil Programmes to which French contributes.For current Cambridge final year undergraduates, an information meeting will be held by the Faculty in the second half of the Michaelmas term, but you should talk to your supervisors and Directors of Studies as early as possible in the academic year if you are interested in postgraduate studies.Students who are in the final year of an undergraduate degree should start with the MPhil pages (an MPhil is equivalent to what is known of as an M.A. or Masters in most other universities). Students who have already completed an M.A. or equivalent (including the MPhil inCambridge) should feel free to contact an appropriate member of staff in French for personal advice. Applications for both full-time and part-time research degrees are welcomed.Prospective PhD students should contact the Graduate Director of French, Prof. Nicholas Hammond, with any questions about graduate study.For the PhD, the we have expertise and welcome candidates in most areas of French Studies, including Medieval, Early Modern, Modern and Francophone literary and cultural studies, as well as French linguistics, and topics involving philosophy, critical theory, gender, cinema, and other interdisciplinary areas (see staff details).Those interested in other fields should consult the Graduate Director in French, Prof. Nicholas Hammond, about the availability of supervision.The Modern Languages Faculty library has a good working collection of works in French Studies and the University Library's collection is very extensive. Many works are on open access and can be reserved on-line from College terminals. The normal expectation by funding authorities and the Faculty is that graduate studies should begin with success in a Master's degree, to be followed, if they so wish, by a further two or three years' work towards a PhD. French participates in three MPhil programmes:For details of these programmes, follow the links above. The various essays and the MPhil thesis are all individually supervised, and are considered an excellent preparation for the full-scale research and dissertation of the PhD. In addition, the topic of the MPhil thesis may, and often does, form the foundation of the PhD. Progress from the MPhil to the PhD is, however, not automatic - high marks are expected, particularly in the thesis. Needless to say, we are also very happy to consider candidates wishing to take French options in the M.Phil. but who may not intend to embark upon further study at PhD level.Both PhD students and MPhil students participate in formal training sessions for using library and online resources, sessions in research techniques, as well as appropriate sessions in all aspects of career development which are organised by the MML Faculty. Above all, PhD students also receive personal guidance and direction from their individual supervisor on research and writing in their topic area. The role of the doctoral supervisor is important because it offers - and requires - a close and structured collaboration, which depends on joint interest and motivation. Regular contact and written work are expected. The Department appoints an adviser as well as a supervisor to each PhD student, and there is also a French Department postgraduate adviser available for consultation. At the end of their third, sixth, and ninth terms of research, students submit reports on their work and are interviewed by two members of the Department, not only to check on their progress but also to provide further advice and stimulus.'Cambridge French' has one of the largest and most successful groups of postgraduates in French in the country, with very good relations between MPhil and PhD students, and with graduates in other language departments, who are all able to meet and work in the purpose-built Graduate Centre in the Modern Languages Faculty. Graduates themselves organise the Cambridge French Graduate Research Seminar, which brings together both lecturers and graduates. During the year papers are given mostly by the graduates, providing an opportunity to discuss individual research with researchers in neighbouring fields as well as useful practice in preparing for teaching and giving conference papers in due course. Over the last few years the FGRS has also gained a national reputation for its annual colloquium. Lecturers and postgraduates from other universities contribute, and the proceedings are regularly published. The French section also runs separate Medieval, Early Modern, Modern and Linguistics seminars where local and national experts as well as distinguished speakers from abroad give seminars during term. In addition there is a tradition of internationally known Conferences in French, often with a Renaissance theme, entitled Cambridge French Colloquia. Full details of these seminars are posted here and students are regularly informed by email. All students are welcome to attend. Please click here for a list of current PhD students in French and here for student testimonials.Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeTestimonialsPhD Students in FrenchMML provided a lively research environment, both in the well frequented Graduate centre and in the various student-led graduate seminars and conferences. My supervision was both extremely rigorous but also empathetic and supportive. Between the University library, MML and the college libraries the range and amount of research materials available was invaluable for my thesis. Since completing my thesis, I am currently teaching at the École Normale Supérieure de Lyon, an opportunity organised by the department to spend time gaining experience in research and teaching abroad.Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeProspective studentsHome The French are our nearest neighbours, with whom we have been interacting throughout our history. French is a major world language, spoken not only in several European countries, but in Canada, Africa, and the Caribbean, and the influence of France on European culture has been massive from medieval times to the present. In literature (poetry, drama, the novel), philosophy, the visual arts, and cinema, its achievements are second to none. You will find French immensely rewarding to study.As well as offering high-level teaching in all aspects of language, the undergraduate course covers the literature, thought, and culture of France and the French-speaking world from the early medieval period to the present day. You will be able to develop your existing interests and to discover new and perhaps unexpected ones. You will encounter challenging and stimulating ideas about language, culture, and life. As well as linguistic skills and academic knowledge, you will acquire important transferable skills, skills of analysis and expression (verbal and written), which will be valuable to you whatever your chosen path after Cambridge. See here for information on the French grammar you'll need to know if you want to study French at Cambridge. Applying for undergraduate studyCambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeFrenchThe French are our nearest neighbours, with whom we have been interacting throughout our history. French is a major world language, spoken not only in several European countries, but in Canada, Africa, and the Caribbean, and the influence of France on European culture has been massive from medieval times to the present. In literature (poetry, drama, the novel), philosophy, the visual arts, and cinema, its achievements are second to none. You will find French immensely rewarding to study. As well as offering high-level teaching in all aspects of language, the undergraduate course covers the literature, thought, and culture of France and the French-speaking world from the early medieval period to the present day. You will be able to develop your existing interests and to discover new and perhaps unexpected ones. You will encounter challenging and stimulating ideas about language, culture, and life. As well as linguistic skills and academic knowledge, you will acquire important transferable skills, skills of analysis and expression (verbal and written), which will be valuable to you whatever your chosen path after Cambridge.Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGrammar requirementsHomeToutes les références données ci-dessous renvoient à H. Ferrar, A French Reference Grammar , Oxford University Press, 1997Veuillez noter que les cours de Use of French sont faits en français et qu'il vous faudra connaître la terminologie grammaticale en français. (Everything on the list below must be known before your arrival at Cambridge)La conjugaison (Ch. 1, § 1-12)La construction des verbes (Ch. 6, § 50-53, 55, 56) (Everything on the list below will be covered during your Part IA language course)Usage des temps ci-dessous Cambridge Medieval Literature and Culture Seminar 2017/201810 October 2017The Cambridge Medieval French Research Seminar, in an effort to truly reflect the fluidity of Medieval Europe, has decided to embrace all aspects of Medieval Literature and Culture: this was made possible by a generous grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Centre. The 2017/2018 programme will include speakers from...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGerman post A-Level (Option B)UndergraduatesThe first-year course consists of a combination of lectures and classes arranged by the Section and mostly taking place at the Sidgwick Avenue site, and of supervisions arranged by the colleges.The examination consists of an oral, two language papers, plus one scheduled paper. (See Scheduled Paper & Course Advisers for Option B below.)The language papers will be as follows:Preparation for the Option B examinations involves one weekly class in Use of German, one fortnightly class in Translation from German, a lecture series (Ge1 - Introduction to German Studies) and two kinds of supervision provided by your College, one for your scheduled paper and one for language work. The language supervision is intended both to prepare you for the oral examination and to help you individually to develop your ability to express yourself clearly and idiomatically in written German. You should therefore expect to have to prepare for and participate in discussion in German in your College language supervisions, normally one a week. While the number of contact hours you will experience may appear small by comparison with what you have experienced at school, you will find that much of the benefit you can expect to receive will be a result of individual study related to the work set for your classes and supervisions.You will be expected to attend one weekly class in Use of German and one fortnightly class in Translation from German, both organised centrally by the Section. For each of these classes you will be set a piece of work to be handed in by a specified deadline. You should expect to spend about three hours on average on any piece of work set for these classes.Recommended booksFor your German language work, it is essential that you have your own copy of the following:M. Durrell, Hammer's German Grammar and Usage (2016)M. Durrell, K. Kohl, G. Loftus, Practising German Grammar, (2017) (designed to go with Hammer's German Grammar and Usage)[The books by Durrell and Fagan are used for class teaching in years 2 and 4 also.]You should also familiarise yourself with the larger German dictionaries available in the Faculty and College libraries, e.g., Langenscheidt, Wildhagen, Oxford-Harrap. The following reference works are also recommended for use on the first-year course:German and Dutch has an excellent collection of German reference books in the MML Library. Besides all the standard dictionaries you will find there not only a range of philosophical and historical ones, but also some more unusual ones which should make browsing in this section very enjoyable.All post A-level students will take one course, the paper Ge1: Introduction to German studies. This paper will introduce them to all the aspects of the formal study of German culture that form part of the Cambridge German course: literature of all periods and film, linguistics, history, and thought.Preparation for a scheduled paper requires attendance at the lectures advertised in the Lecture List on our website and the online timetable and supervision provided by your College. A normal course of supervisions for a scheduled paper consists of ten sessions at fortnightly intervals throughout the teaching year. A member of staff is nominated to be course adviser for each scheduled paper (details to be found on the linked pages), and enquiries can be made directly to them. In the first instance however, you should consult your Director of Studies if you have any queries about the scheduled paper.What you get out of your German Language work depends a great deal on what you put in. The following may help you improve your German on a day-to-day basis while you are in Cambridge:Apart from the initial purchase of the language books recommended above and perhaps certain core text books for the Ge1 scheduled paper (and later on for other scheduled papers), students are unlikely to incur any further costs specifically related to their German studies.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGE11Part IIThis paper is available for the academic year 2017-18.*This paper also serves as Paper 22 of the Linguistics TriposEvery student of German as a foreign language runs into questions which the language teacher can only answer by saying 'Because that's how it is'. Why is the plural of Tag Tage, while the plural of Nacht is Nächte and the plural of Wort is Wörter? Why is the past tense of singen sang, when the past tense of bringen is brachte? If we compare German with English, how can we account for the correspondence we find in Pfeffer-pepper, Pfeife-pipe, Pfad-path, but not in Pilger-pilgrim or Partei-party? Why do some words which have the same form not have the same meaning, like weil and while or klein and clean? Why does German still have gender, when English does not? The only intellectually satisfying way to explore these issues is to look at the development of the German language in the past, considering both continuity – shared features between German and related languages – and variation and change. Drawing on data derived from a close analysis of texts from earlier periods and varieties of German, we can consider innovations like the role of Umlaut in phonology and morphology, the development of future marking and the fixing of the V2 word order pattern.This paper may be taken as a follow-up to Ge7, German: A Linguistic Introduction, or as a stand-alone paper. It will complement the borrowed Germanic Philology paper, the papers on the history of any of the other languages offered in the Faculty, or the general Historical Linguistics paper. It also gives an overview of German language through culture which would make it a good foil for any of the literary or historical papers in Part II German.For students from other triposes who wish to take this paper, a good reading knowledge of German is required (at least AS-level or equivalent). The paper is structured around four thematic areas. In 2017–18, those themes will be distributed as follows:Michaelmas TermMorphosyntactic Change in the History of GermanOld High German and Old Saxon Lent TermMiddle High GermanStandardization, Purism and Sprachkritik since the 19th century 1. Morphosyntactic Change in the History of GermanThe historical development of German grammar is outlined in a series of longitudinal studies looking at the whole span of the history of the language, supported with material available in digital corpora as well as print text collections. The key topics are auxiliaries and the rise of the two-verb phrase; the marking of number, gender and case in the noun phrase; negation, and V2 and the verbal brace. The reasons why German is generally less grammatically innnovative than related languages such as English and Dutch are explored, and there is an opportunity to look at closely related languages and dialects to see how some changes are favoured while others (such as the do-auxiliary) are not. This discussion dovetails with the overall topic of standardization which is a key element in topic areas 1 and 4.  Introductory reading 2. Old High German and Old SaxonThis module focuses on the earliest stage of German, considering the regional and temporal diversity of the period from 800- 1000. We look at the representation of key sound changes in the earliest forms of written German, at the contrast between inheritance and innovation in German morphology, and at the emergence of characteristic word order patterns. These phenomena are illustrated through data from a range of early texts, looking particularly at early religious texts which allow a comparison between different regions, including northern texts in Old Saxon. Text classes enable the study of longer texts in Old High German.Introductory reading Set Texts for Old High German and Old SaxonThe following texts will be studied in detail, and passages for commentary will be set from them in the exam.
The Freisinger Paternoster (Bavarian, 9th c.) and Weissenburger Katechismus, Pater noster section (South Rhenish Franconian 9th c.), both in Wilhelm Braune, Althochdeutsches Lesebuch Tübingen: Niemeyer, pp 34–5 (any edition).
Three versions of the story of the feeding of the five thousand. 3.  Middle High GermanIn the period 1050-1350 the German language witnessed a vast expansion, geographically and functionally. Colonization of lands east of the Elbe resulted in a large increase of German-speaking territory; economic and social changes associated with a growing population encouraged the increased use of the written vernacular alongside Latin, and for a variety of uses. Although courtly romances and lyrics by authors such as Hartmann von Aue and Walther von der Vogelweide are nowadays the most widely known products of the explosion of written text-production in the Middle High German period, these literary texts represent only a small proportion of the total corpus, which covers religious writing, law and administration, and practical handbooks of all kinds. This module will examine important and often controversial aspects of Middle High German: the much-debated existence of a standard form of the written language; the phonological and morphological development of the language over time; regional varieties of written MHG.Introductory readingSet texts for Middle High GermanThe following texts will be studied in detail, and passages for commentary will be set from them in the exam. 4. Standardization, Purism and Sprachkritik since the 19th centuryThe 19th century has long been neglected in German linguistic historiography as a consequence of the widely-held view that standardization had already been accomplished by the end of the 18th century, and that after the grammar of Gottsched and dictionary of Adelung, there was little left to be done. More recently, though, the concept of Sprachgeschichte von unten introduced by Stefan Elspaß has cast a new light on the linguistic and national debates of the 19th century, when industrialization, urbanization and the spread of literacy to all sectors of society created clashes over the role of the German language in the creation of a unified national identity. From the late 19th century to the present, the German language has at times become a political football, with a strong tradition of journalistic and academic Sprachkritik challenging the role of loanwords, changes in spelling, and prescription vs. description in the widest sense. We will focus on discourse about German as a standard language, though purism in lexicography from Campe to the Anglizismus-Index, notions of ‘correct spelling’ from the late nineteenth century to the present, and the current disaster–narrative of the position of German in globalization.Introductory readingSee reading lists above. The teaching for this paper is delivered via a weekly lecture, supplemented with text classes for the Old and Middle High German modules.
Supervisions are held fortnightly throughout the year.For the Ge.11 Moodle site, please see here. The password can be collected from the paper coordinator.  The examination is divided into five sections, one for each topic area and a general section. Candidates answer a total of three questions, taking each from a different section.A specimen examination paper can be seen here.For students wishing to offer an optional dissertation to replace this paper, topics may be considered which focus on any period in the history of German, or which compare standard German and any of its varieties, or which incorporate a comparison with closely related languages such as Dutch. Any theoretical approach which is established within linguistics may be adopted. © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeOther coursesHomeThe Language Centre offersPlease note that the courses described on these pages are only open to registered students of the University. Members of the general public looking for German or Dutch language teaching are advised to consult local secondary schools or sixth form colleges for details of their courses. Popular choices in Cambridge areA useful link for information about courses nationwide is http://www.learndirect.co.uk.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeThe College SystemPhDAll students at the University must belong to a College. Each of the 31 Colleges forms a separate community and its members represent most of the academic subjects. Colleges are independent of the University faculties and departments. The College fulfils a number of roles for any student, including providing a social structure, (non-academic) tutorial care, and frequently accommodation. In the case of undergraduates, the Colleges are also responsible for admitting a student to the University, directing the student's study, and arranging certain kinds of teaching (notably supervisions, as tutorials are called in Cambridge).Although postgraduate admissions are a matter for the Board of Graduate Studies, on the recommendation of the Department, postgraduate students must nonetheless also be admitted to a College. The postgraduate application form for the MPhil or PhD) therefore lists the Colleges and asks applicants to express a rank-ordered preference for four. An offer of admission by the University does not automatically guarantee a place at a College but in practice acceptance by a College is largely a formality. The choice of College is entirely a matter for the applicant, though members of the Department of German and Dutch will be happy to give advice. Applicants new to Cambridge may wish to bear in mind that some Colleges admit only postgraduate students (Clare Hall, Darwin, Hughes Hall, St. Edmund's; Wolfson College admits mainly graduate students) and some admit only women (New Hall, Newnham; Lucy Cavendish admits only women aged over 21 who are returning to higher education). There may be some advantage in choosing a College to which a member of the Department or someone otherwise concerned with German or Dutch is affiliated, but there is no reason not to apply to other colleges. For further information please consult the University of Cambridge Graduate Studies Prospectus.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeResearch Colloquia, Special Lectures and ReadingsPostgraduatesThe research colloquia are seminars for staff and graduate students at which papers are given by members of staff and speakers from outside Cambridge. ALL GRADUATE STUDENTS IN GERMAN ARE EXPECTED TO ATTEND THESE AND OTHER RESEARCH EVENTS.Special lectures and readings are open to all interested members of the University and, when advertised as such, to the general public. Thursday 20 October, 4.30pm  Annual Schröder LectureCripps Court Auditorium, Magdalene CollegeProfessor Simanowski (Hong Kong): Faust on Facebook or how we lose track of everything by recording it all Friday 28 October, 4.30pm  Research ColloquiumColeridge Room, Jesus CollegeProfessor Peter Morgan (Sydney): Germanistik, German Studies and the New World Literature Friday 27 January, 4.30pmResearch ColloquiumColeridge Room, Jesus CollegeProfessor Anne Fuchs (Warwick): Modernist Perambulations: From Enlightened Walking to Crawling, Stalking, Modelling and Street-Walking Friday 26 February, 4.30pm          Annual Boltzmann LectureBateman Auditorium, Gonville & Caius CollegeDr Edward Saunders (Vienna) and Matthias Weßel (Kassel): Arthur Koestler’s Adaptation of Autobiographical Narratives in “Darkness at Noon” / The Rediscovery of the German Original of Koestler’s “Sonnenfinsternis”/”Darkness at Noon” Monday 13 March, 5pm6th Annual D. H. Green LectureRuncie Room, Divinity Faculty, Sidgwick SiteDr Jonathan Lyon, University of Chicago: topic tbc Friday 28 April, 4.30pm           Research ColloquiumColeridge Room, Jesus CollegeDr Norbert Wolf: Topic tbc.  Details of previous colloquia:2015-16, 2014-15, 2013-14, 2012-13 Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePostgraduate ConferencesPostgraduatesInformation on postgraduate conferences in the Department of German and DutchThis Postgraduate Conference took place on 13 May 2017, with four panels and ten speakers. Click the links for the Conference Programme and a Report. This Postgraduate Conference took place on 10 & 11 April 2015, with speakers from UK, US, Italian and German universities. A workshop offered the opportunity to present research plans and seek advice. The Full Conference Programme can be seen here and also a Poster. There is a commentary on the conference by Angus Nicholls and also some photos.  Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeFormer PhD students in the Department of German and DutchPhDGerman writing on slavery and abolitionism from 1789 to 1888. Webpage.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGerman and DutchThe Department of German and Dutch very much welcomes candidates for a master's degree (MPhil). It is the only such department in the UK which has always been placed in the top grade in research assessment exercises and can fairly claim to be the best in the country. The collegiate structure of the University also makes for a supportive environment.The Department participates in all three of the MML Faculty's MPhil courses:The Department has an officer responsible for graduate matters, currently Prof Andrew Webber, Churchill College (network tel: 36211, e-mail: ajw12@cam.ac.uk). You may consult him for advice on any aspect of your graduate course.Professor Midgley offers an insight into graduate study at the Department (Video courtesy of Postgraduate Search TV) If you do not yet have a Master's Degree, the MPhil in European Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures, organised by the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages, could provide the ideal starting-point for your graduate work. The one-year course, examined by essays and a dissertation, consists of a core unit in critical theory and a choice of modules from various language areas. The Department of German and Dutch participates fully in the programme and currently offers three modules, two in literature and one in thought. Details of modules.Academic queries about the MPhil in European and Comparative Literatures and Cultures should be directed to the Course Director for the M.Phil, see MPhil contacts. For those who are interested in Film and Media, the MPhil in Film and Screen Studies, organised by the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages, could offer another route into graduate work. Like the MPhil in European and Comparative Literatures and Cultures, this is a one-year course, examined by essays and a dissertation. It consists of a core unit in critical theory and a choice of modules from various areas of film and media. Members of the Department of German and Dutch are involved in teaching the programme, which are organised in two strands - Strand 1 and Strand 2.Academic queries about the MPhil in Fim and Screen Studies should be directed to the Course Director for the M.Phil, see MPhil contacts. The MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics, organised by the Faculty's Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (DTAL), caters both for students who want a course in linguistics generally, and for those who wish to specialise in the linguistics of certain language areas. All students are required to follow courses in 'Research Methods' and 'Linguistic Theory'. Beyond that, each student follows his or her own 'Study Plan', which allows the individual interests, needs, and strengths of the student to be met. This includes the possibility of specialising in specific language areas by choosing a 'pathway' in Celtic, Germanic, Romance or Slavonic languages. Students who choose a language-specific pathway write at least one of the long essays and the MPhil thesis on a topic which is clearly within the language area chosen. Further details.The Department's adviser on the Germanic pathway in the MPhil in Linguistics is Dr Sheila Watts (Newnham College, network telephone 35816, e-mail sw271@cam.ac.uk). Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeThe Germanic Pathway in the MPhil in LinguisticsMPhilThe Germanic pathway allows students to specialize in the linguistics of the Germanic languages in the context of general theoretical linguistics. It aims to give students the research skills and necessary intellectual background in both Germanic and general linguistics to allow them to pursue independent research on Germanic linguistics. The Germanic pathway is formally co-ordinated by Dr Sheila Watts (Department of German and Dutch). We are fortunate in being able to draw from time to time on the expertise of a number of other Germanic specialists: Dr Theresa Biberauer (Department of Linguistics); Dr Richard Dance (Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic); and Dr David Willis (Department of Linguistics). Applicants need to have at least a reading knowledge of German: knowledge of additional Germanic languages is very welcome.In the first (Michaelmas) term, students doing the Germanic pathway are expected to follow four lecture courses or three lecture courses and a course of directed reading. At least two of these must be in an area of general linguistics. They also participate in the general elements followed by all students doing the MPhil. in Linguistics (seminars in Linguistic Theory and Research Methods). Students are encouraged to maintain broad interests in both Germanic linguistics and theoretical linguistics by combining a range of courses from both areas. The following courses in Germanic linguistics will normally be available:*Normally only one of these courses (by agreement between staff and students) will be available in any one year.Other Germanic courses may be available by arrangement with the lecturers concerned. The list of courses in general linguistics can be found on the main page of the MPhil in Linguistics. Assessed essays are written in four of these areas. Of these, two or three should be in Germanic linguistics.In the second (Lent) term,a seminar 'Topics in Germanic linguistics' is normally offered alongside the other seminar topics, by agreement between students and staff. Students must participate in one (or optionally two) seminars in general linguistics. The seminar in general linguistics should normally continue one of the areas studied in Michaelmas Term. During this term, students begin work on their dissertation. This can be on any aspect of the linguistics of a Germanic language or languages, but topics that interact with the research interests of the teaching staff are particularly welcome.Further enquiries about the Germanic pathway should be directed to  Dr Sheila Watts .For details of work for assessment and Regulations please see MPhil in Linguistics main page.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeThe PhDPostgraduatesIf you already have a Master's Degree, or are able to start research without one, the Cambridge Department of German has an outstanding range of facilities and expertise to guide you through these years of research to the PhD. If you wish, you are likely to be given the opportunity of gaining experience in small-group teaching for colleges.The Department of German and Dutch is the only such department in the UK which has always been placed in the top grade in research assessment exercises and can fairly claim to be the best in the country. The collegiate structure of the University also makes for a supportive environment.The Department has an officer responsible for graduate matters, currently Prof Andrew Webber, Churchill College (network tel: 36211, e-mail: ajw12@cam.ac.uk). You may consult him for advice on any aspect of your graduate course.In British universities the PhD ('Doctorate of Philosophy') is traditionally awarded solely on the basis of a dissertation, a substantial piece of writing which reports original research into a closely defined area of enquiry. Candidates for the PhD in Cambridge are guided by a supervisor, though they will normally also discuss their work with a number of other experts in their field.The completion of a PhD dissertation is standardly expected to take three years, and most funding for PhD students is based on this assumption.The Department welcomes applications for the part-time PhD course and enquiries should be directed to the Graduate Adviser (Prof. Andrew Webber, e-mail: ajw12@cam.ac.uk) in the first instance.There is a regular Graduate Seminar and a Research Colloquium which brings together all members of the Department.Professor Midgley offers an insight into graduate study at the Department (Video courtesy of Postgraduate Search TV) The Department welcomes PhD students, particularly those who wish to work on topics which fall within the specialist intersts of teaching members of the Department (see Teaching and Research Areas of German Staff). The requirement for admission to the PhD is a strong honours degree in a relevant field, with clear evidence of research potential, and a distinction or equivalent in Masters / MPhil.  Prospective applicants should consult our graduate webpages for information on entry requirement, application deadlines, fees, funding opportunities, and further information relating to graduate study in MML.UK applicants for the PhD usually seek funding from the AHRC (Arts and Humanities Research Council), or the equivalent sources of grants for postgraduate humanities courses in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Applicants from abroad normally seek funding in their home countries or from various Trusts and College sources, information on which is provided on the Faculty graduate website. PhD registration begins in October, with funding deadlines in October, December and January for a start the following October. The Department also has some sources of funding for PhD students working in relevant fields.Applicants for the PhD will, wherever possible, be interviewed by members of the Department in the Lent Term of the year in which they wish to begin their graduate studies. The interview will seek to establish not only the suitability of the candidate, but the most appropriate procedure for supervision and library work.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeThe German Graduate Research SeminarPostgraduates Michaelmas 2017 ProgrammeLent 2018 Programme to be published in due courseEaster 2018 Programme to be published in due course. For the programme of upcoming talks and an archive of past events, please see the GGRS page at talks.camFor further information please contact Syamala Roberts (Jesus College)  sar75@cam.ac.uk or Kathrin Wunderlich (Churchill College) kw456@cam.ac.ukInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePhD Students in the DepartmentPhDRobert CraigScience, Nature, and the Self in the work of Alfred Döblin and Robert Musil.Prof David MidgleyThe Fictional Bürger: Citizenship in the German NovelSpatialisation of Time: Temporalisation of Space: Architectural images and figures of ruins. Nina Rismal Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeTestimonialsPhDDoing the PhD in the Cambridge German department was a wonderful experience - you have the chance to immerse yourself in a single topic, working with experts in the field, surrounded by other research students who might work on related areas or on wholly different topics, and with a varied series of research events. It was highly enriching and wholly supportive, both academically and personally.The scholarly environment that Cambridge provides fits well with the PhD in German. An active graduate seminar and regular departmental conference schedule all contribute to an inclusive, cohesive and supportive student experience in the department.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeWhat do students of German do after graduation?Prospective undergraduatesOur students have taken up careers in many walks of life, both in Britain and abroad. Some go on to further study in literature and culture, but also in history, modern politics, European studies, history of art, international and European law and other subjects. Others go straight into careers including the following: civil service and local government, employment in the EU and in NGOs or UK and international charities, publishing, marketing, teaching, NHS administration, museum work, banking and finance, journalism, law (following a postgraduate law conversion course). Every year a fair number return to the German-speaking world to take up jobs in the places where they spent their Year Abroad. Like graduates in other languages, students of German have a higher chance of finding immediate and lasting employment than students of any other arts and humanities subject.
For further facts and information about the German language see Make it in GermanyRead how a researcher at Cambridge University has shown that Germany is the happiest country in the world!Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeFAQProspective undergraduatesEnglish speakers are at a great advantage when they learn German, as the languages are both members of the Germanic language family. This means that a lot of basic vocabulary is the same in English and German: for example, the English words ‘arm’, ‘hand’ and ‘finger’ correspond to German Arm,Hand and Finger. In French, by contrast, the corresponding words are bras, main and doigt, or in Spanish brazo, mano and dedo: these words resemble each other, as French and Spanish belong to the Romance family of languages. Of course, not all the correspondences between English and German are as straightforward as Arm and ‘arm’. Sometimes you need to make a sound substitution: for example, English t is often German z, so ‘ten’ is Germanzehn and ‘tin’ is German Zinn. Sometimes slight meaning changes reflect an interesting history: for example, the German word Zaun has the same origin as English ‘town’, but means ‘fence’, as towns used to be enclosed settlements.When it comes to more complex words, English and German share a lot of international words like Politik for ‘politics’ or Diskussion for ‘discussion’, easy to learn and familiar in many languages. One of the things which makes German fascinating to learn is the way that long words – and German is famous for its long words! – are built up by combining short ones. A simple example is the word Fingerhut, or ‘finger-hat’, which is the German for ‘thimble’, orHandschuhe, ‘hand-shoes’, the German for ‘gloves’. But even much more complex words may be built up in this way, so for instance the German for ‘diabetes’ is Zuckerkrankheit, or ‘sugar-sickness’. This ‘lego-principle’ means that every word you learn gives you access to understanding many more items based on it.Besides vocabulary building, the other major part of language learning is grammar. Here, German has both easy and difficult features. Verbs, for instance, are much simpler than in the Romance languages. Like English, German verbs only have two real tenses: ich trinke is ‘I drink’ and ich trank is ‘I drank’. All other tenses are made by simple combinations with verbs which are the equivalents of English ‘have’ and ‘will’. French and Italian, by contrast, each have four tenses with separate endings which have to be learnt. On the other hand, it must be admitted that the German noun is a bit more complex than those found in English or even the Romance languages, although like them, German nouns have unpredictable genders. In addition to this, articles and adjectives also have endings determined by what is called case. English speakers use case naturally in some situations, for instance when we say ‘he met me’ and not ‘him met me’ or ‘he met I’. But we do need to learn to extend this concept over a wider range of words in order to use nouns correctly in German.Another instance where German uses concepts we naturally understand from English is in word order. German has a rule that the verb must always come second in the sentence: the same rule that we find in English sentences like ‘Where is John?’ (never ‘Where John is?’), or ‘Here comes John’. Yoda’s version of German word order with all the verbs at the end is thus much harder than the real thing!Finally, what makes it rewarding to learn German? Two things are worth mentioning here. On the one hand, English speakers find that it is easier to distinguish the words in spoken German than in spoken Spanish or Italian, because many Germans speak more slowly and clearly, making more spaces between words. You can use this to your advantage when speaking as well: there’s no need to imitate a rapid torrent of speech to sound ‘authentic’. And on the other hand, Germans love to hear foreigners speak their language, and will always encourage you to talk to them and tell you how good you are – even when you suspect this might not be true! As a German learner, then, you get great positive feedback: you will soon understand Germans, and they will really try to understand you.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeWhy learn German?Prospective undergraduatesSpeakers of German are the largest linguistic group in the European Union and have played a central role in European history and culture for nearly two thousand years. Germany's geographical position has made it a natural mediator between east and west, north and south. In the periods of Reformation, and of Romanticism and Modernism, the German lands saw the birth of literary, artistic, theological, philosophical and musical movements which continue to shape the world we live in today. German writers such as Goethe, the brothers Grimm, Thomas Mann, Brecht or Grass and thinkers such as Luther, Kant, Marx, Nietzsche and Freud rank among the most important writers and thinkers of the West.German remains an important language in the twenty-first century. Germany has the third largest economy in the world and is the world's most successful exporting nation. Roughly 10% of all books published worldwide are written in German and there are more than twice as many German websites (.de) as British (.uk). German is spoken by over 100 million people in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.Read more from the Goethe-Institut here.AND read how a researcher at Cambridge University has shown that Germany is the happiest country in the world! AND according to an international study, Germany has overtaken the US in 2014 as the world's best nation and the most popular country.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGerman and Dutch Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGerman post A-Level (Option B)UndergraduatesThe first-year course consists of a combination of lectures and classes arranged by the Section and mostly taking place at the Sidgwick Avenue site, and of supervisions arranged by the colleges.The examination consists of an oral, two language papers, plus one scheduled paper. (See Scheduled Paper & Course Advisers for Option B below.)The language papers will be as follows:Preparation for the Option B examinations involves one weekly class in Use of German, one fortnightly class in Translation from German, a lecture series (Ge1 - Introduction to German Studies) and two kinds of supervision provided by your College, one for your scheduled paper and one for language work. The language supervision is intended both to prepare you for the oral examination and to help you individually to develop your ability to express yourself clearly and idiomatically in written German. You should therefore expect to have to prepare for and participate in discussion in German in your College language supervisions, normally one a week. While the number of contact hours you will experience may appear small by comparison with what you have experienced at school, you will find that much of the benefit you can expect to receive will be a result of individual study related to the work set for your classes and supervisions.You will be expected to attend one weekly class in Use of German and one fortnightly class in Translation from German, both organised centrally by the Section. For each of these classes you will be set a piece of work to be handed in by a specified deadline. You should expect to spend about three hours on average on any piece of work set for these classes.Recommended booksFor your German language work, it is essential that you have your own copy of the following:M. Durrell, Hammer's German Grammar and Usage (2016)M. Durrell, K. Kohl, G. Loftus, Practising German Grammar, (2017) (designed to go with Hammer's German Grammar and Usage)[The books by Durrell and Fagan are used for class teaching in years 2 and 4 also.]You should also familiarise yourself with the larger German dictionaries available in the Faculty and College libraries, e.g., Langenscheidt, Wildhagen, Oxford-Harrap. The following reference works are also recommended for use on the first-year course:German and Dutch has an excellent collection of German reference books in the MML Library. Besides all the standard dictionaries you will find there not only a range of philosophical and historical ones, but also some more unusual ones which should make browsing in this section very enjoyable.All post A-level students will take one course, the paper Ge1: Introduction to German studies. This paper will introduce them to all the aspects of the formal study of German culture that form part of the Cambridge German course: literature of all periods and film, linguistics, history, and thought.Preparation for a scheduled paper requires attendance at the lectures advertised in the Lecture List on our website and the online timetable and supervision provided by your College. A normal course of supervisions for a scheduled paper consists of ten sessions at fortnightly intervals throughout the teaching year. A member of staff is nominated to be course adviser for each scheduled paper (details to be found on the linked pages), and enquiries can be made directly to them. In the first instance however, you should consult your Director of Studies if you have any queries about the scheduled paper.What you get out of your German Language work depends a great deal on what you put in. The following may help you improve your German on a day-to-day basis while you are in Cambridge:Apart from the initial purchase of the language books recommended above and perhaps certain core text books for the Ge1 scheduled paper (and later on for other scheduled papers), students are unlikely to incur any further costs specifically related to their German studies.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeAb initio German (Option A)Undergraduates As part of their degree in Modern Languages students may read German without any prior knowledge of the language in combination with a post A-level language. The Beginners' Course (ab initio German) is only for students who are reading for an Honours Degree in Modern Languages. Any other members of the University wishing to learn German from scratch should consult the Department or go to Other Courses.Let the facts speak for themselves:Back to topThe ab initio course in German and Dutch at MML has been running since October 1990. It brings you to A-level standard in one academic year, and is an integrated part of the 4-year Honours Degree in Modern Languages. We have seen a number of students achieve distinguished degrees in a language they could hardly speak, if at all, when they came to Cambridge. We believe we have designed a course which is both attractive and very effective. Equal emphasis is put on achieving written and spoken fluency and our methods combine the traditional with the modern. Although this may seem daunting, let us give you an idea...Back to topThere are 4 hours of Faculty classes a week led by two teachers, both native speakers of German, Mrs Annemarie Künzl-Snodgrass (Jesus College) and Ms Silke Mentchen (Magdalene College). They teach in alternate weeks, so there is a welcome change of teaching style every week.Back to topBack to top"Studying German ab initio was certainly intensive, but ultimately extremely rewarding. My first and second years involved almost daily German classes and supervisions, as well as brief language courses in Heidelberg and Berlin, which allowed me to put what I’d learnt into practice. By the time I came back from my third year in Berlin, I had forgotten I had done German ab initio!" (Myrto)"I am a barrister in London at the minute, but tend to work on cases with international elements.  I spent 6 months in Paris last year working on a Swiss arbitration in English, French and German between two very well known companies - one in France, one in Germany.  My MML days certainly paid off.  Almost 10 years on I wanted to thank you for your excellent teaching and inspiration during the ab initio year.  I feel that the skills you drilled in to us regarding the use of language and, for example, ways of finding different formulations for the same idea (in either language) are something that I have to use on a daily basis in court, or more importantly in legal documents.  I genuinely do sometimes think back to those lessons when I am drafting.  I also have such great memories of the hours spent in the Faculty, as well as events outside of the classroom - Heidelberg, Schönhausen, German Breakfast."  (Andrew)  "The hard work was worth it when I went to Germany and realised I could actually speak German!" (Sara)"Starting German from scratch at university is not as impossible as it may sound - you would be amazed to see how much you can learn in one year! The course is intensive, but you get to spend a lot of time in Germany, which is an excellent way of learning the language in a more fun way and relieve some of the stress! It is definitely something to go for if you feel you've missed out on German at school or if you want something a little more challenging and exciting." (Marzia)"The teaching was very thorough, but equally importantly we all got on really well as a group and I made some great friends. We all really enjoyed the trip the Department organised for us to Wust at Easter and came back speaking much better German. Although the pace of learning is fast, in small classes it works really well. I would certainly do it all again, especially the trip to Wust, and would recommend the course to anyone at all tempted to do German" (Martin)"I find it a fantastic opportunity to learn a new language up to a very advanced level in two years, since it is not offered in many universities and it is unlikely we will get the chance to reach such high level in such a short time ever again. Having only been able to judge my level in German against the other 6 members of the group it was extremely satisfying to realise, on going over to Germany for my Year Abroad, that I was able to talk almost fluently and get by also in Business German! This was definitely not an easy option to take but it has been a course from which I have got much personal satisfaction and have thoroughly enjoyed." (Charlotte)"I did German at school, but then changed to Spanish in the Sixth Form. I did French and Spanish A-level, but decided to do Beginners' German at Cambridge. I really enjoyed starting a language (more or less) from scratch (again), and it gives me an enormous sense of achievement to think that I will be sitting my finals in a language I could not speak when I came here three years ago. It may seem like an impossible task, but it can be done, and it wasn't such hard work that I had to give up my free time to manage it!" (Julia).Back to topAll beginners will spend one year preparing for the Part IA examination in German, whether they are total beginners, have some basic familiarity with the language or have done GCSE German. The first year course will concentrate heavily on acquiring the basic elements of the language, with an introduction to literary texts; in the second year beginners are able to take part in more advanced language classes. The course is taught four mornings a week throughout the academic year, by two teachers in alternate weeks. In addition, supervisions for the oral and literature components of the course will be arranged. These normally consist of one one-hour session a week throughout the year for oral work, and one extra session a week in the Easter Term for literature.Back to topThe course we use is DaF Kompakt (Klett 2011), by Ilse Sander et al and consists of a course book and a practice book. There are 3 books which you need to buy:You should work through the first 4 chapters before you come to Cambridge to start your degree course. You will be sent a glossary to help you with this by the course teachers.Back to topCosts will be incurred for the initial purchase of the course books and material recommended above and perhaps certain core text books for scheduled papers throughout the course (see individual paper descriptions). It is recommended that ab initio students to go to Germany during their first year. In recent years ab initio students have stayed with host families in Schönhausen/Elbe, near Berlin, and have attended a language course in Heidelberg. Whilst this is not a compulsory part of the course, it is viewed as an essential part of the year's work.Back to topGerman and Dutch itself does not hold information on employment or residence abroad, but you may be able to obtain further advice from the Director of Studies at your prospective College or the Year Abroad Office in the Faculty. Please do not hesitate to contact either the Director of Studies or German and Dutch section with any further queries you may have, however small.Back to topAll beginners will spend one year preparing for the Part IA examination in German, whether they are total beginners, have some basic oral familiarity with the language or have done GCSE German. The first year course will concentrate heavily on acquiring the basic elements of the language, in terms both of grammar and of vocabulary. There is also an introduction to literary texts (by Thomas Mann and E.T.A. Hoffmann). In the second year the ex-ab initio students attend more advanced language classes in Use of German and Translation from German.The course is taught four mornings a week throughout the academic year, by two teachers in alternate weeks. In addition, supervisions for the oral and literature components of the course are arranged by the Department. These normally consist of one one-hour session a week throughout the year for oral work, and one extra session a week in the Easter Term for literature.The papers in the examination for Option A are as follows:Back to topBack to topInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeAb initio tripsAb initio German (Option A) At Christmas to BerlinThe Department has good contacts with a language school in Berlin where the ab initio students get two weeks intensive German tuition whilst staying in a German family as paying guests. Cambridge ab initio students in front of the Brandenburg Gate in BerlinSchönhausen is a small place in the historic Brandenburg countryside between Berlin and Magdeburg. Since the reunification of Germany in 1990 English teachers at the local secondary school have welcomed our ab initio students as paying guests for a week or ten days during the Easter vacation. The stay usually includes students getting some teaching experience at the school, social evenings, a trip to Berlin, and if possible, excursions to other places of interest, such as Magdeburg and Weimar. places of interest, such as Magdeburg and Weimar.  Cambridge ab initio students in Wust near Schönhausen    The little village of Wust near Schönhausen is the setting for the Sommerschule Wust. A number of our ab initio students have gone there in the summer to teach English to German students. There is a wide range of activities on offer which include entertainments and sports events, concerts, plays and operettas, lectures, creative writing courses and poetry readings. Since its beginnings after reunification the Sommerschule Wust has gained a growing reputation as a place of international cultural activities and exchange. Visit the Wust homepage: http://www.sommerschule-wust.de Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeUndergraduate ConferencesUndergraduatesInformation on undergraduate conferences in the Department of German and Dutch.The fourth Cambridge Undergraduate Conference in German Studies will take place on Saturday 10 February 2018. The topic will be   The 2018 keynote speaker will shortly be announced here.
Undergraduates from all disciplines and a range of UK universities are invited to attend.  Feedback & comments from previous conferences:'Cambridge University Department of German and Dutch hosted its third undergraduate conference today, to brilliant success. To see undergraduates from other universities come to Gonville and Gaius college, and make thoroughly-prepared and well-argued presentations with the right blend of intellectual confidence and modesty was an inspiring experience, and an example of the best that British education can do. Add, as keynote speaker, Dr Huburtus Knabe, director of the memorial established in Berlin's former Stasi prison (supported by the Schröder fund, and off next to speak in Cambodia) and there was something for all of us to learn from, however long in the tooth. Gladly lerne, gladly teche, as someone once said. Participants included PGCE students, sixth form teachers from across the country, and other students. At £10, including an excellent lunch and refreshments, this was a bargain as well as an intellectual and social treat. Anyone who can attend next year's conference, or, better still, ensure that students do so, will do German studies in the UK a very good turn indeed.' (John Bald).  The Full 2018 Programme will soon be available here. Online booking will soon open and there will be a link from here.  
If you have any queries, you can contact us by email at cucgs@mml.cam.ac.uk.Any schools interested in this event, please contact Ulrike Balser on german@mml.cam.ac.uk. PREVIOUS CONFERENCESThe first Cambridge Undergraduate Conference in German Studies took place on Saturday 21 February 2015. For the full 2015 Conference Programme please click here and photos are available via this link. The second Cambridge Undergraduate Conference in German Studies took place on Saturday 30 January 2016. For the full 2016 Conference Programme please click here. The third Cambridge Undergraduate Conference in German Studies took place on Saturday 11 February 2017. Please click here for full details. Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeCambridge Undergraduate Conference in German Studies GalleryHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeCurrent UndergraduatesUndergraduatesA list of recommended supervisors for all German scheduled papers except Ge1 will shortly be available here.The German and Dutch section would like to congratulate two of its students who had both started German "ab initio" on their outstanding 2014 exam results.If you would like to find out more about our Ab Initio option, you can read our flyer, or for more detail, please go to our section on Ab Initio courses by clicking hereThe Harvill Secker Young Translators' Prize has been awarded to Ellie Collins, fourth year student from Cambridge for her translation of a Julia Franck story, for details, please click here. Congratulations.
 Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGerman Language Papers in Part IBHomeIn your second year in Cambridge, you progress to more advanced language work and begin to lay the foundations for Part II. It is a time when you need to be thinking ahead, to your Year Abroad, and beyond that to the options you will offer in Part II. You therefore need to make sure you understand not only the structure of your course this year, but also how the choices you make now will affect what you can do later on.If you have taken German ab initio in Part IA you will be concentrating on German this year. You will have to offer in IB the language papers taken in the first year by post A-Level candidates: For these papers, you will be assigned to classes along with first-year students offering these papers in IA.You will also have to take at least one scheduled paper from the IB list for German. Note that Ge1 is open to ex-ab initio students only. Supervisions for these papers will be arranged by your College and you will be expected to attend the relevant lectures provided by the Department.If you have taken German post A-level in IA and your second language was also post A-level, you will be offering the following German language paper:You will also be offering three papers from the Part IB schedule in literature, history, thought, linguistics. One, two, three, or none of these may be in German, depending on the emphasis you wish to give to German studies in your course overall, on your choice of country for your Year Abroad, on the language(s) in which you want to offer your language papers in Part II, and on the options you envisage taking up in your final year. It is essential to talk about these matters with your Director of Studies.If you have taken German post A-level in IA and your second language was ab initio you will be concentrating this year on your ab initio language. But you can still keep up your German, either by offering one, or even two papers from the German IB schedule, or by offering Paper GEB3: Translation into German and a test in German through audio-visual media, with or without a scheduled paper in German. It is usually advisable to offer at least one paper in German, and essential if you are thinking of spending your Year Abroad in Germany. If you are intending to take some German papers in Part II, and especially if you are thinking of writing a dissertation on a German topic, you may want to lay a foundation in your second year. As always, make sure you discuss these decisions with your Director of Studies.Look out too for lectures in German on the Lecture List even if they do not relate to areas you are studying in detail. You may well have to attend lectures and take notes in German while you are abroad and this is an opportunity to practise a useful skill.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeGerman Scheduled Papers in Part IBPart IbThe scheduled papers will introduce you to some of the most important events and movements in European intellectual, literary and political history. The German-speaking nations have had a decisive hand in making Europe, and European culture, what it is today. A knowledge of German is equally essential for understanding medieval Europe, and studying the history of the German language is a natural complement to the study of Romance philology or of linguistics. One common feature of the German scheduled papers on the whole, and of the accompanying lectures, is that they emphasise the historical and general philosophical dimension to a much greater extent than those of any other Department in the Faculty.In Part IB the Department currently runs six German options: Ge 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7. Please note that Ge1 is open for ex-ab initio students only, but not compulsory. They can also choose from the other five papers. It is sensible in making your choice of IB subjects to ask what they might lead on to or complement when you come to Part II. In particular you should remember that in Part II you will have to offer a dissertation or translation project (and may choose to offer two dissertations) and that a dissertation may (and probably should) lie in the area of a paper which you have already studied, so that you can feel confident of your general knowledge of the background to what should be a closely-focused project. In the detailed list of options which follows you will find some specific advice on which papers at the IB level best fit in with which subjects for Part II (including dissertations).You may substitute a Long Essay for any of the following papers in Part IB: Ge 2, 5, and 6.The Department also participates in three comparative papers for Part II. These are not available in Part IB, but if you are thinking of taking one of them in your final year you should be thinking now about which options this year will best prepare you for them.In all cases specimen or past examination papers, which are kept in the MML Library, give some idea of the kind of questions that are set. See also Marking criteria for scheduled paper essays and the Faculty policy on plagiarismA full list of all the MML scheduled papers available is given in Schedule IB.Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeProspective UndergraduatesUndergraduates You can start German at Cambridge with only GCSE or no prior knowledge of German at all, as an 'ab initio' student. Our ab initio students have a very good track record, see here
For more information on our ab initio courses (papers), please click here and look at the ab initio exam papers. 
 You will follow a course of language classes and lectures on the literature and culture of German-speaking countries. For full details, please click here and look at the 'post A Level or equivalent' exam papers. There is also some useful guidance for freshers available. 
 For full details of the steps of the application process for undergraduates, please click here. You can check the entrance requirements here - the various exam types are listed on the left.German speakers get better jobssome good reasons for learning German;why English speakers are at a great advantage when they learn German;what some of our students have gone on to do after graduating.what the MML German Department does to support the teaching and learning of German .Information for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeYear Abroad Activities in German-Speaking CountriesUndergraduatesOver the years our students have spent their year abroad in German-speaking countries engaging in a wide variety of interesting activities, sometimes splitting their time between two or more occupations. Below you will find reports from some recent students.Heidi (Film festival)Jessica A (German Parliament)Kate, Laura and Lauren (Cornelson Publishing House)Liz (also in Bonn, Hamburg and Munich)Sarah (Reuters News Agency and social work firm)Adele (Recruitment consultancy and fashion agency in Frankfurt)Caroline A (Automotive Group in Regensburg)Graeme (PR agency in Düsseldorf)Heidi (Google in Hamburg)James A (Finance house in Frankfurt)Kamila (Children’s theatre in Vienna)Katherine (Motor manufacturer and accountancy firm in Stuttgart)Rosie (Bank in Frankfurt)Adele in FrankfurtCaroline B in JenaCaroline C in GeraGareth in MünsterGraeme and Martin in HamburgHannah in BerlinJames B in HeilbronnJessica B, Kate and Tim at the Wust Summer SchoolMartin A in HamburgNaomi in KaiserslauternRuth in LeipzigSheena in NamibiaBryn, Eva, Heidi, Jessica A, Kaleen and Katya in BerlinCaroline A in RegensburgCharlotte in GöttingenJessica B in MunichKamila in ViennaMartin B and Tim in MunichPippa in LeipzigSophie in Konstanz ADELE:
I spent my entire year in Frankfurt, leaving Cambridge straight after May Week and not returning until just before the Part II oral exam. I spent the year working in a variety of different places. I began by teaching English in a Kindergarten and in a Vorschule. Later on in the year I went on to do an internship in a fashion agency, where I was involved in the preparation of the collections, organisation of trips to fashion fairs and sales to big department stores such as Peek und Cloppenburg. At the end of my year I did a short internship as Office Manager in a multi-national recruitment consultancy firm, in the centre of Frankfurt. Although the work side of the year was highly challenging and taught me a lot, what made my year as amazing as it was was my involvement in extra-curricular activities. I played and captained the Frankfurt lacrosse team and was also involved in coaching the women's and children's programmes. Through playing for Frankfurt I was selected to represent the German National Team in a variety of International Lacrosse Events, such as the Prague Cup and the Home Internationals. Through the lacrosse I was able to travel all over Germany (Berlin, Hamburg, Munich, Cologne) and have the most incredible experiences.Back to top BRYN:
I spent the full twelve months of my Year abroad in Berlin, capital of the universe, which I split between three main activities. The first was being a student at the Humboldt Universität. The fact that you don't need to pass any exams on your year abroad presents a great opportunity to do something completely wacky. I took classes in Hungarian and Finnish, but you could try Gender Studies or Neuroscience. The Humboldt is enormous, and offers a huge range of courses. You don't get all that much interaction with the academics and you may not make many friends (uni isn't normally the heart of a student's social life, and there's no real freshers' week), but it's a fascinating look at a totally different model of higher education, one which places much more emphasis on independence. I often found it a bit vague and stressful, but I liked it enough to go on a march defending it during the annual Bildungsstreik.Since you are free to choose your workload at university, you will have plenty of time for other projects, which can provide the social life missing in lectures. Some people get jobs or internships, but the second aspect of my year was a bursary programme called the 'Studienkolleg zu Berlin'. It's a truly excellent programme which brings together a small group of students from across Europe for seminars, social events and a project focused on a research trip. I went to the Dreiländereck Hungary-Romania-Serbia to investigate life at a border, but some groups went as far as Israel or the Crimea. Berlin is full of exciting opportunities, and being a student gives you the free time to pursue them. Whatever you want to do, you're sure to find it.Which brings me to the third main activity of my year abroad: simply having a marvellous life. Berlin is without a doubt the most exciting city I've ever been to, but it also boasts a quality of life that far exceeds what you find in London or Paris. The low prices and truly excellent transport make this a very manageable metropolis. Berlin does everything except be economically productive, which gives it a laid-back vibe all its own: the world's best clubs, great restaurants, cheap opera, experimental art and theatre, sex parties, Döner and Currywurst, more history than you can shake a stick at, shabby-chic cafés, cheap beer on the U-Bahn at 6am, world-class museums, stunning parks, anarchist riots, modern architecture, squats and palaces. I didn't do them all, but that's the point of Berlin. Just go there and do what you want. The only downside is how much you'll miss it afterwards.Back to top CAROLINE A:
I spent my entire year, from October to September, in Regensburg (Bavaria). For the first six-months I worked as an intern in the marketing department at Continental. I was fortunate enough to be in a young and friendly team making the experience very enjoyable. Working a 35-hour week meant I had my evenings and weekends free for sport and music, plus a little bit of money to spend. I lived in university accommodation, joined the choir and took part in climbing and boxercise meaning it was easy to make friends within the student population. From April to July I enrolled as a 'Gaststudentin' at the university taking classes in Latin American Culture, Spanish Film, Translation and German Thought. One of the great things about the university is that you can pick and choose the lectures and seminars that interest you and build your own timetable freely. This meant that combing work and study was no hassle and I kept my job at Continental working part-time as a 'Werkstudentin' for 15 hours a week.Regensburg is a lively and historic student town with the highest density of bars and pubs per square metre in Germany! With a population of 150,000 the town has enough going on to keep you occupied but soon adopts a comfortable and homely feel. Moreover its idyllic position on the Danube at the edge of the Bavarian forest makes it an excellent gateway into the Bavarian countryside. The town is also well connected by rail link: the 'Bayern Ticket' costs 27 Euros for up to 5 people making day trips to Munich and other towns affordable. Located in the heart of Europe, cities such as Prague and Vienna as well as the ski slopes are only a couple of hours away.Having been made a UNESCO world heritage site in 2007 a variety of cultural events take place throughout the year from the traditional and picturesque 'Weihnachtsmärkte' in December to a variety of Jazz and music festivals in the summer and of course not forgetting the famous Bavarian beer festivals in May and September!Combing work and study was a positive experience and gave me a great insight into both sides of life in Germany. Regensburg is also a very welcoming place and I'm planning to keep in touch with and visit all the friends that I made there!Back to top CAROLINE B spent her year abroad as a British Council Language Assistant in Jena (Thüringen). She worked with 11- to 18-year-olds at a Gymnasium where the atmosphere was very friendly and welcoming. She thoroughly enjoyed taking conversation classes, introducing students to unusual elements of British culture and playing games in lessons. She also prepared classes for the visit of an English theatre company in February. She told us that the teaching and lesson preparation was a lot of fun and she had plenty of freedom to use her own ideas in lessons. She was invited on several school trips by both the English and Sozialkunde departments, where she was able to take part and get to know some of the students better. She also set up a penpal link between the Gymnasium and her former school in England.Caroline thought that one of the best aspects of the Language Assistant programme is that it leaves time for other activities since it is only 12 hours a week. Caroline was therefore able to go to some classes at the university in Jena, where she made a lot of German friends through singing in the choir and learning Taekwondo. She went on tour with the choir to Denmark and was often able to travel around at the weekends to see other parts of Germany. As the Language Assistantship finished at the end of May, Caroline returned to Germany over the summer and worked as an au pair for 5 weeks to keep up her German in preparation for the oral exam.
Caroline had a very positive experience as a Language Assistant and said she would recommend it to anyone.Back to top CAROLINE C spent her year as an assistant at a Gymnasium in Gera, Thuringia. The school was a large one, an amalgamation of 3 schools on 2 sites, and so, she reports, there was plenty for her to do, both in the classroom and in the extra curricular side of things, particularly in the three English-language theatre groups. She then spent two months of the summer working for CLAAS, "Europe's leading manufacturer of agricultural harvesters", in the PR/Investor Relations department in Harsewinkel, near Bielefeld, NRW. This gave her a taste of the world of work, and also allowed her to explore a new part of Germany. She says it was especially interesting to experience life and work in both Eastern and Western Germany, and she would highly recommend the new Bundesländer to anyone thinking of a year abroad there.Back to top CHARLOTTE:
I spent the whole of my year abroad, from October to July, in Göttingen studying Komparatistik, with Slavisitik and Germanistik. The courses were excellent. As a comparatist, you are entitled to attend both the special intercultural and interdisciplinary lectures and seminars offered by the department (eg. "The films of Roman Polanski", or "metaphor and metonymy"), but you have in theory the right to attend any of the courses offered by the Philosophische Fakultät – that is, all the languages and their literatures, from German to Finnish to Serbo-Croat, from Ancient Greek to modern Chinese, plus history, philosophy, cultural anthropolgy, music, political science... Because Komparatistik per se is quite small-scale, it is advisable to be affiliated to a larger department through your "Nebenfach", and both the German and the Slavonic departments to which I was attached are very strong. Something which gave me a great deal of pleasure was the course in beginners' Czech which I attended throughout the year. Courses in the Slavonic Dept tend (with the exception of Russian) to be undersubscribed, so the teachers, who are wonderful, can devote lots of attention to each student.Göttingen is also a lively place to be. Like Cambridge, it is a small town with a large student population, so it is impossible to feel foreign and anonymous for long. Sports facilities are excellent, and there are a number of societies and organisations: the university choir was one of my main activities, and the place where I met a lot of my close friends. There is a wonderful, small theatre, whose productions are always outstanding, and tickets are very cheap; and there are various cultural festivals throughout the year - the Literaturherbst in October, or the Händelfest in May. Göttingen is possibly not the place for avid clubbers, but there are plenty of beautiful bars if that is enough. The town is also, of course, right in the centre of Germany, and is extremely well-connected: you can be in Berlin in just over 2 hours, Munich in just over 3, and Prague in about 5; so you have both a comfortable, close-knit community base, and the possibility to take off for the weekend if you feel like exploring further afield.I cannot recommend the university, the town and the people highly enough.Back to top EVA studied literature, and German and Italian language at the Humboldt University in Berlin. She also spent six months on a Praktikum with an organisation offering advice to school drop-outs and the long-term unemployed. Eva had such a good time in Berlin (she even took part in the Berlin Marathon) that she planned to return for further year of study after graduation.Back to top GARETH spent his year abroad teaching at a Gymnasium in Münster. He told us that teaching all age groups from 11-19 made for lots of variety during the school day, and he was also able to sing with the school choir, co-direct a school play and coach the senior debating team.In his spare time he became involved with the Christian Union at Münster University, which he co-led for six months. He also made use of the chance to travel extensively in Germany and neighbouring countries, and enjoyed the "amazing experience" of two weeks sailing a nineteenth-century ship along the Dutch coast!Back to top GRAEME:
I spent the first eight months of my year abroad teaching English in a Berufsfachschule (vocational school) in central Hamburg. This involved teaching classes of roughly twenty pupils aged between 15 and 19. This was a different challenge to the Gymnasium atmosphere I had expected in German schools, but a great challenge nonetheless. My pupils spoke low-level English and sometimes only rudimentary German, but were enthusiastic and charming. Some staff shortages during the second half of my time there meant that I was even entrusted with preparing a class for their final leaving exams. The responsibility that came with this situation really made me feel like I was helping to make a difference to people's lives whilst I was away.
The staff at my school were extremely welcoming and always ready with some helpful advice, whether about teaching methods or what to see in the city.Hamburg itself is one of Europe's great metropolises. Extraordinarily wealthy, clean and boasting a nightlife reputation greater than even Amsterdam's, it is an amazing place to spend a year. It also serves as a central rail hub in northern Germany with fast ICE connections to all the major cities in Germany. The relatively small amount of teaching time required by the British Council, when combined with the healthy salary made this an ideal opportunity to get to know the rest of the country which I really tried to take advantage of. Almost every weekend involved the exploration of a new corner of the forests of Swabia, the northern Hanseatic cities or the bars in Berlin.I spent my final four and a half months in Düsseldorf with komm.passion, a leading German PR agency. I worked there as a member of the consulting team, writing presentations, contacting journalists and doing lots and lots of translation! This experience really improved my German and was a great way to round off the year.If you are thinking about making these cities or activities a part of your year abroad, I can highly recommend them.Back to top HANNAH split her year abroad between East Berlin and West Berlin, as well as between working and teaching. In East Berlin (Mitte) she worked as a Praktikantin in a government-supported social work firm. This involved teaching German from scratch to immigrants (aged 16-60 and from diversely deprived backgrounds); translating all of the firm's materials (from pamphlets to government and legal documents) into and out of German, French and English; and organising/booking international staff conferences and youth exchanges.  She went to West Berlin (Dahlem) as an English assistant at a Gymnasium, but found herself taking full charge of some classes as time went on. Her pupils there were aged 11-19. In her free time she took part in language, dancing and sport classes; took part in tandem conversational schemes; met a spectacular amount of German people through socialising; and, with friends, explored other German/European towns by train.Back to top HEIDI studied German and History at the Freie Universität in Berlin during her year abroad. She says that the experience of attending a different type of university with another system of study enriched the knowledge and capabilities she had already gained during her first two years at Cambridge.Heidi also gained experience of the working world doing short internships in each of Germany's two largest cities. She spent six weeks at Google in Hamburg, and as a public relations assistant and interpreter at a Berlin film festival called "Achtung Berlin - New Berlin Film Awards" she had the opportunity to meet a variety of figures from all different walks of the film world.Back to top JAMES A:
I managed to pack lots into my year abroad. I gained a great deal of exciting work experience in banking at Goldman Sachs in Frankfurt where I was given responsibilities in several international projects. I then spent a month writing my dissertation in Hamburg, "feeling like a character from Der Zauberberg", I travelled from Hamburg to Beijing by ship and train with a concert tour of German musicians, and I also assisted in the making of a documentary film sponsored by the German foreign office.Back to top JAMES B was very enthusiastic about his time in Heilbronn spent teaching English, football and cricket! His pupils became very enthusiastic about Cambridge too and some came to be shown around his College when he returned to England.Back to top JESSICA A:
I spent my year abroad in Berlin and split my time between studying at the Freie Universität, as part of the Erasmus scheme, and doing a six-month internship in the German Bundestag (parliament).
At university, I mainly chose lectures and seminars within the department for Deutsche Philologie. Many courses were related to my Part II paper choices and the topic I had chosen for my year abroad dissertation. I was also keen, however, to study new subjects such as film and international relations. As a member of the FU, I was also able to enroll in courses in any other Berlin university. I was keen to keep up my other language, Spanish, so enrolled in a Latin American history course at the Humboldt Universität. I enjoyed the diversity that the two campuses offered and found it a good way to meet other students outside of the FU.For my internship in the Bundestag I worked within the department for international relations, in a subdivision for interparliamentary organisations. This involved working alongside civil servants responsible for the German delegation to international parliaments such as Council of Europe, NATO or the Western European Union. My tasks were very varied, such as condensing reports and translating them into either German or English, drafting a speech for an MP, and accompanying a delegation of Iraqi MPs on a weeklong conference on the workings of the Bundestag. It was a great opportunity to learn about a completely different political system, a way of improving my German to a more 'business' level and meeting other interns. As my studies at the FU were my main priority I worked part-time in the Bundestag and chose my hours around my courses.The rest of my time was spent thoroughly enjoying Berlin as a city. Berlin has, arguably, Europe's most vibrant cultural scene and nightlife. Prices are cheap and an excellent public transport system mean that everything the city has to offer can easily be enjoyed on a student budget. Being based in Berlin is great also in terms of travel, with regular connections from the city centre to places such as Copenhagen or Poland.Back to top JESSICA B:
My year abroad was a complete mix of places, people and tasks. I got a taster of the year abroad during a month teaching English in Wust, a small village in Saxony-Anhalt, where I taught language in the morning, culture in the afternoon and spent the evenings playing sport with the pupils or rehearsing for a bi-lingual play: The Visit/Der Besuch der alten Dame (Dürrenmatt)! This was a super experience and gave me a great taster of life in Germany as well as an amazing group of friends.
After a short return to England, I moved to Munich, Bavaria, where I spent the year at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität studying Germanistik (German studies), focusing on the linguistics side. I also spent a lot of time in the local town archives doing research for my year abroad project and got involved in giving Nachhilfe (English tuition) to pupils in the area. I also spent a lot of time on the ICE train up to Magdeburg to visit my boyfriend, and got involved in a theatre group at his university, which was great fun and a good chance to practise my German and teach some English! Munich is also a great base for travelling and I spent time exploring beautiful Bavaria and took trips to Prague and Salzburg.After my time in Munich had come to an end I did not want to leave Germany, especially not with the oral exam coming up in October. I decided to teach in Wust again, this time teaching older groups of participants. I gave a class in English linguistics and helped produce the school newspaper, the "Wuster Rooster". When my time in Wust was over, I moved to Cologne, where I had rented a room in student accommodation for a girl who was temporarily away. Here I completed a 6-week internship in translation and proof-reading at the company LinguaWorld, working on texts covering all sorts of domains, from certificates, to legal documents, to marketing texts, all the way through to slightly 'interesting' websites! The internship was a fantastic experience, and useful for the translation papers in 4th year.
Doing a mixture of all three year-abroad opportunities was a fantastic experience and meant that I got the best of all three worlds, and the chance really to experience life in three different parts of Germany. I would recommend such an experience to anyone!Back to top KALEEN:
I spent my year abroad at the Humboldt-Universität in Berlin. The best thing about studying during your year abroad is that you can try out a lot of other things you wouldn't otherwise be able to do – I learned some basic Romanian, and I took a class called 'Inszenierte Jugend' which required that we act out scenes from 18th-century plays! You spend a lot less time at the uni than you do in Cambridge, so there is plenty of time to do other things on the side, like working or joining societies. I spent my extra time working on a group research project for a scholarship programme called the 'Studienkolleg zu Berlin' about the trafficking in women from Moldova, which involved going there to conduct interviews.Berlin is a fantastic city – it is big and exciting, but never overwhelming because it is made up of a lot of little neighbourhoods ('Bezirke'), each of which is a bit like a mini-city in itself. It is also really cheap in comparison to England or a lot of other big cities, and there are special student prices for pretty much everything (you can go to the theatre for 7 euros). And as a student you get a special 'Semesterticket' for the public transport system, which lets you travel all around Berlin and the area just outside for six months.
I would definitely recommend both studying and going to Berlin.Back to top KAMILA:
I spent my year abroad in Vienna, studying Deutsche Philologie at the Universität Wien and working for das Wiener Kindertheater (Children's Theatre of Vienna).Studying in Vienna was a completely different experience from Cambridge. In some lectures there were around 250 students, so it felt a bit overwhelming at the beginning, but I got used to it quite quickly. There was a variety of courses available within the department to choose from, so I could pick topics which were relevant to my studies here. Apart from going to lectures, we were asked to attend seminars, where we had the opportunity to discuss our areas of interest in German.Working for das Wiener Kindertheater was a truly great experience. All of my colleagues were native speakers of German, so I could practise my language skills most of the time in the office. I had to make and answer phone calls from parents, which also developed my persuasive skills, as people usually called with complaints or weird inquiries. I also sent and replied to emails (Rundschreiben and the likes), delivered important documents to various offices, dealt with the NGO's bookkeeping, translated from German into English, usually for the Romanian branch of the theatre. Two times a week I also worked at the workshops, helping the instructors out whenever I was needed - so I could also practise my German with children, teaching them poems for example. At the end of the year for almost two months I worked in Theater Brett as a costume and makeup person, which was lots of fun. My boss was very supportive and made sure I adapted well to living in Vienna, for example by helping me integrate with the other employees and introducing me to people from the art world of Vienna she knew.Vienna itself is a perfect place to live - big enough to be attractive from the cultural and entertainment points of view and small enough to feel safe and homely. It was named the city with the highest living standards in the world three times (last in 2009), it has an amazing public transport and the best tap water in Austria. Contrary to what everyone says it is also affordable, with theatre tickets available for as little as 1 euro and cheap supermarket chains everywhere. Apart from that it has thousands of bars, pubs, traditional coffee houses, museums, galleries, parks and anything you could want from a capital city. It would be perfect for anyone interested in art, music, cinema, literature, history of just in having fun, I recommend it wholeheartedly.Back to top KATE:
I started my year abroad working at a summer school in Wust in rural Sachsen-Anhalt. Here, I taught English in the mornings, did French and 'Disney' workshops on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons and also 'starred' as the witch in their production of 'Hansel and Gretel'. This was a very fun start to the year!Following my work at the summer school, I then did a twelve-month internship at one of Germany's largest educational publishers, Cornelsen Verlag in Berlin. Through challenging and varied work as a Volontärin (paid intern) in the modern languages section, I gained an excellent insight into all stages of the editorial process. My main duties involved proof-reading, writing exercises and model answers and I even got the chance to go to the recording studio to 'act' on some of the CDs for their English textbooks! The job was very rewarding and I would thoroughly recommend such placements as a great way for year abroad students to make vast developments in their German skills and to gain valuable professional experience in a very friendly working environment.Back to top KATHERINE:
I spent my year abroad working in Stuttgart. I began at Daimler Mercedes on an internship for five months working in their Corporate Language Management department, carrying out tasks such as liaising with translation agencies and Daimler employees, proofreading and other project management duties. The internship was challenging but fun as I was given a great deal of responsibility and valued as a team member. My second internship was for six months at Ernst and Young, working in Language and Translation Services. This role included translating HR texts, training documents and some accountancy based spreadsheets and reports. I also assisted my colleagues with larger translations, proofreading and doing final quality checks. I thoroughly enjoyed this internship as I worked with fantastic colleagues in a lively, busy office. I was even given my own large project that included translating a 50-page training document on how to make small talk with clients - probably the funniest thing I've ever translated into English! Working at two international companies also enabled me to see the translation process on a huge scale, whilst being able to get involved in it myself as well! I also felt like a real part of the team at both internships and the interns were looked after very well as 'Stammtisch' and other social evenings were organised for us on a regular basis.Working for the whole year abroad not only challenged and improved my language skills but it also gave me a great insight into the working world. My hours were generally 9-5, leaving me evenings and weekends to spend time with friends, see the city and travel around the rest of Germany as well. It has helped me to grow in confidence but also provided me with an amazing year where I learnt so much and had fun whilst doing so.Stuttgart is a really great place to live – it's a large city but not so big that you ever feel lost in it. The shopping, museums, parks and nightlife are all fantastic and its beer festivals in October and April are great fun! Its position in Germany is also perfect if you wish to travel around Germany, France, Switzerland and lots of other countries thanks to the relatively cheap train connections there. For someone who is looking for an internship I would really recommend Stuttgart as it is home to the headquarters of many large international companies, such as Daimler, Bosch and Porsche. The city is full of students interning at these companies making it a great place to meet people and make friends.Back to top KATYA spent her year abroad in Berlin at the Humboldt University (Neuere deutsche Literatur) and participated in a bursary programme run by the Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes, called das Studienkolleg zu Berlin. The Studienkolleg takes approximately 40 students (half from Germany and half from other European countries) and allows the students to work together on projects with relation to European history, identity and politics; Katya's project group, for example, worked on the topic of 'The public role of intellectuals (in Europe)'. In addition to this there was a programme of evening lectures and occasional weekend seminars.Back to top LAURA spent "superb" year abroad in Berlin, doing a twelve-month internship at one of Germany's largest educational publishers. Through challenging and varied work as a Volontärin (paid intern) in modern languages section, she gained an excellent insight into all stages of the editorial process.Laura would thoroughly recommend such placements as a great way for year abroad students to improve their German skills vastly and to gain valuable professional experience in a competitive field.
In her free time Laura enjoyed exploring Berlin's exciting music and theatre scene and travelling in Germany.Back to top LAUREN:
I spent my year abroad working for Cornelsen Verlag, an educational publishing house in Berlin. The work I did there was incredibly varied and always interesting. The majority of my tasks were editorial, such as proofreading, translation and liaising with authors and senior editors, but I also got to work, among other things, as a voice artist on school CDs. I also did a lot of copyright permissions requests, which meant I got to work with some really high-profile firms and clients - I even had to ring the White House at one point!
Those who are worried about spending their entire year in an office needn't fear though – despite the famous German work ethic, I still managed to get plenty of time off to relax, explore Berlin, and travel outside the city. Over the year, I not only spent time in Vienna and Prague, but also got to visit several amazing German cities, went shopping in Poland, learned traditional drinking songs at a Bavarian wine festival and celebrated Easter with friends in the former East.
Berlin is also a fantastic place to live - every neighbourhood has its own unique vibe and round every corner there's something different and exciting. I had so many once-in-a-lifetime experiences whilst I was there, from watching Angela Merkel deliver a major campaign address to seeing Usain Bolt run the 4x100 metres at the World Athletics Championships.Working on my year abroad was definitely one of the most positive and beneficial experiences of my life - I gained a great deal of valuable work experience and confidence, made a lot of friends and useful contacts, and had an absolutely wonderful time into the bargain in one of the most fascinating and exciting cities in the world. I would definitely recommend it to anyone as a great way of giving yourself a head start in the world of work whilst improving your German - there really is no better way to spend your year abroad.Back to top LIZ:
If you want a year abroad with flexibility, independence and fresh challenges, I would really recommend working. I decided that I wanted gain practical experience during my year abroad, and having no idea what I wanted to do after the fourth year, I thought that this would be a great opportunity to try out different things and at the same time enhance my CV! In total, I completed four internships in Hamburg, Bonn, Berlin and Munich in areas from radio journalism to public relations.
An internship isn't like work experience: you are treated like a member of staff and play an active part in the company. During my year abroad, I had an article published in a political journal, I had items broadcast on the radio and help set up a company's website – all without prior experience in the relevant safields!I am really glad that I decided to take placements in different cities. It sounds chaotic, but it is easier than you might think and I was able to experience different areas, hear different dialects and meet lots of new people. I attended a conference run by the Dalai Lama in Hamburg, the Beethoven festival in Bonn, the Berlinale international film festival in Berlin and Oktoberfest in Munich.By choosing the employment option, you set the pace of your year abroad. You can what to do and where to do it. The Faculty requires you to spend eight months abroad: I spent fifteen. That's how much I enjoyed my year abroad!Back to top MARTIN A was a Language Assistant at a school in Hamburg and enjoyed this so much that in his final year at Cambridge he acted informally as a student representative in Cambridge for the British Council, the organisation which arranges assistantships abroad.Back to top MARTIN B spent his year abroad as a student at university in Munich. He continued with some of the topics he'd studied in his second year as well as trying out some new subjects, such as manuscript analysis and Japanese. He also helped other students with their English, and managed to fit in quite a lot of travelling!Back to top NAOMI:
I spent my year abroad in Kaiserslautern (Rheinland-Pfalz, Germany) – probably somewhere only very keen football fans will have heard of. However, you don't have to be in a buzzing metropolis or a historic university town to have a great time on your year abroad!
In Kaiserslautern I worked as a British Council English Language Assistant in a Gymnasium. I really enjoyed planning lessons on topics ranging from the representation of social class in the film 'Billy Elliot' to the English university system for sixth-form classes and from 'would you like to wear school uniform?' to a creative writing task based on Raymond Briggs' 'The Snowman' for lower level classes. My mentor teacher was really supportive and very happy for me to define my own role, so I really did get the most out of my time there. Because most of the English teachers had spent time abroad themselves, they knew how important it was for me to speak German as much as possible outside the classroom. Most of the teaching I did was to whole classes (I enjoy a challenge) but I also did team-teaching, small-group work and even one-to-one sessions (with teachers as well as pupils!). I was certainly never bored, and even in my free lessons there was always someone to chat to – the ladies in the cafeteria quickly learned that I would always ask for a cup of tea!Because an Assistant usually only has 12-16 hours of timetabled teaching per week, it's often possible to arrange to have a day off, and this option certainly gives you lots of free time to explore your local area and culture. I enjoyed having a 3-day weekend to visit local towns as well as places further afield like Berlin, Leipzig, Salzburg, Stuttgart and Koblenz. I also did a part-time unpaid placement in the 'Pfalzbibliothek' (a library devoted to regional culture and history). As well as gaining valuable work experience in a different professional environment, I made lots of friends at the library and was pleased to find some really interesting sources for my year abroad dissertation there! I joined a chamber choir in the town, enjoyed being introduced to and performing a range of German Volks- and Weihnachtslieder, and am looking forward to going back to Kaiserslautern to sing at the Christmas Market with them.If you're looking for an unforgettable year abroad experience that will give you lots of contact with native German speakers, a chance to be creative, a generous income, transferable skills and the flexibility to make the most of your time, then I wholeheartedly recommend doing a British Council Assistantship.Back to top PIPPA
I spent my Year Abroad studying German literature at the University of Leipzig through Erasmus. This was a truly fantastic experience. I began with a three- week pre-semester language course offered to new international students. This was a useful kick-start to my German development, and provided me with a close-knit group of friends from all corners of Europe, who remained with me throughout my time in Leipzig and immeasurably enriched my time there. The university studies themselves were very varied. I was initially taken aback at the comparative crowding of some of the seminars, but I also came to really appreciate the more laid-back learning approach where you got out what you put in, enjoyed the exposure to a very different model of higher education and had some inspiring lecturers and professors along the way.I feel I got a lot out of studying abroad, but just as much from the extra-curricular activities I got involved in. I found I had a lot more free time than in Cambridge, and made the most of it by joining a local theatre group and performing in two plays (including Dürrenmatt's Die Physiker), volunteering in a local school, improving my German through Tandem-partners, and organising a delegation of Eramsus students to attend the European Youth Event in Strasbourg. Overall I can strongly recommend both Erasmus and Leipzig, a buzzing city which so captured my heart that I plan to return upon graduation.Back to top ROSIEI spent my year abroad in Frankfurt working as an intern in a bank. It was a considerable change from the more flexible hours (and workload…) of student life, but meant that I could develop professional skills and gain valuable work experience while improving my German. Having a taste of the 'real world' during my degree has been highly beneficial, and I feel it will stand me in excellent stead once I graduate. I have also been offered a full-time job by the company once I graduate, another very satisfying consequence of the year abroad which I certainly had not anticipated before I left!Rosie Sargeant on her Year AbroadAlthough my job restricted my free time to weekends, I made the most of these by travelling to other German cities and visiting friends on their years abroad. My colleagues used to say, "Du kennst Deutschland besser als wir!" In this blog post I reflect on some of my experiences, although the benefits of the year cannot be summed up in a brief article: The Wurst Year of my LifeI had an absolutely amazing year and am very happy to offer other students any advice or support based on my own experiences.Back to top RUTH
I spent my year abroad working as a British Council assistant in two primary schools in Leipzig. The children I taught were generally aged six to ten, and my role varied from leading segments of lessons and supporting general class work in one school, to taking whole lessons in the other.Teaching in a primary school was challenging but very enjoyable. I learnt new skills, such as planning and preparing lessons, and my ability to direct and speak to the class improved greatly, in both English and German. English lessons typically involved playing games, singing songs, and reading stories, and there were plenty of opportunities to be creative - we made cracker hats and sang carols at Christmas, and had cardboard pancake flipping competitions for Pancake Day. The children were genuinely interested in learning about a different language and culture, and many of them were simply amazed that I was really from England! From working in a school, I learnt a lot about education, and I really grew in confidence. The experience also gave me a good insight into German culture, and meant that in my day to day life I was communicating with German people of all ages and backgrounds, from age six to sixty.Another major advantage of being a language assistant is that you have a good amount of free time, and along with the monthly grant you receive, this means that you have the opportunity to really explore and enjoy living in Germany. Outside of school, I tried to go to as many local events as possible, often with the other British Council assistants in Leipzig, who I got to know very well. I also visited other cities such as Dresden, Berlin, Frankfurt, Augsburg and Stockholm during the school holidays.I would really recommend the British Council scheme for the diverse opportunities it offers, especially to anyone interested in teaching.Back to top SARAH split her year abroad between Germany and Italy, "losing myself in a whirlwind of exciting experiences and encounters."
For the first six months, Sarah carried out an internship in Berlin with the international news agency Reuters. On day one, she attended a press conference with Angela Merkel and Edmund Stoiber with one of Reuters' senior correspondents – her parents telephoned her that evening to say they had seen her on the television! She became responsible for the news agency's "odd" stories, and wrote a variety of "odds" on subjects ranging from an erotic Bible calendar to Robbie Williams's German stalker. She also helped produce the daily press digest and gathered quotes for stories, including those on the German elections.In Berlin, Sarah also worked part-time as a Praktikantin in a government supported social work firm (Zukunftsbau). This involved translating the firm's materials (from pamphlets to legal documents) into and out of German, French, English and Italian; organising/booking international staff conferences and youth exchanges; teaching Italian from scratch to German builders who were embarking on a Praktikum in Italy!To meet ever more Berliners, Sarah attended Afro-Brasilian dance classes and painting lessons at the local Volkshochschule in Berlin Mitte, as well as several photography and history courses.Sarah spent the second half of her year abroad in Italy. She enjoyed a two-month internship with the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice, delivering regular presentations to the public on specific artworks and guided visits in both English and French. She also translated the museum catalogue and worked in the ticket office, communicating in English, French, German and Italian. Nostalgic for Berlin however, she delivered a seminar for the other interns and Guggenheim staff on the Deutsche Guggenheim and the Deutsche Bank's corporate art collection.Sarah concluded her year abroad with an internship with Associated Press in Rome, arriving just on time to notice the huge difference between the organized German elections (despite the curious coalition issues) and the chaotic Italian elections. There she did some general office work, some fact-checking, and wrote the occasional story. She told us, "The rest of the time I spent meandering through the cobbled streets of Rome, sampling the famous Roman gelati and visiting museums galore!"Back to top SHEENA spent her year abroad in Namibia (a former German colony). She spent three months working in the Language Department of the Goethe Zentrum in Windhoek. She said this gave her a taste of the world of work and was a very insightful and eye-opening experience! Amongst other things, she taught German to adults in the evenings and was involved in organising a national competition open to all students taking German as a Foreign Language in Namibia. She then went on to teach French, Maths and German as a Foreign Language (DaF) for ten months at the Deutsche Hoehere Privat Schule in Windhoek. Initially a school for Germans only, this school has now opened its doors to the non-German population. She said "I found it very interesting to work in a multicultural school in a country which even today still has shadows of the Apartheid."During her time in Namibia, Sheena did a lot of travelling and went as far north as the Victoria Falls (Zambia) and as far south as Cape Town (South Africa). She regularly helped out in an orphanage and kindergarten in one of the townships in Windhoek. She was also involved in many school activities and wrote for the school newspaper. In her spare time, she helped children with their English.Sheena's overall verdict: "My year abroad was a thoroughly exciting and positive experience and I would recommend Namibia to those who are willing to try something new and adventurous - it's a real German experience in a beautiful and sunny African setting!Back to top SOPHIE:
I spent my year abroad studying at the University of Konstanz. My first focus was German literature. I chose subjects that related to my papers at Cambridge as well as other experimental options including a seminar that focused on the voice of literature from public recitals to audio-books and an interactive speech-making course. My second focus was within the Management faculty of the University. I was employed by the nation-wide human rights organisation Terre des Femmes to develop and trail a pilot domestic violence education program. This involved weekly meetings with my team as well as independent research and regular interaction with industry specialists and governmental departments. This programme offered me a valuable insight into professional dealings in Germany across a broad range of areas.
The diverse, multicultural character of the University of Konstanz facilitates inter-cultural exchange between its students. An extracurricular activity that I particularly enjoyed was my participation in a weekly international discussion forum. The topics for debate ranged from Confucian philosophy to German politics. For this seminar, I researched and led a dialogue concerning contemporary indigenous Australian art.The University of Konstanz is a campus uni with a young and vibrant flavour. Interaction between students from diverse faculties and the seamless integration of international students with the German students marks this university as a unique and broad-minded institution. Konstanz with its café culture, laid-back character, neighbouring islands of Mainau and Reichenau and of course the stunning Bodensee is a paradise! It was a wonderful base for exploring some of the natural and cultural treasures of this part of the German-speaking world. I hope all students enjoy their year abroad as much as I did!Back to top TIM spent most of his year abroad studying at university in Munich. He also taught English for two months in rural Sachsen-Anhalt and said he found the two places so different that they were almost like two different countries. He also travelled fairly widely, which also made him realise how varied Germany is – he noticed particularly not just the differences between East and West, but also between post-industrial Saarbrücken and affluent South German cities. He did his teaching before his year abroad proper started and found this very helpful in bringing his language up to speed in preparation for his time at uni.In Munich, Tim mostly chose different subjects from those he'd been studying at Cambridge: Romanisticism, History and Volkskunde/European Ethnology. Seminars included Die Ritter, Tattooing, Piercing und Branding im Europäischen Kontext, Tracht und Mode, Neuokzitanisch and Deutsche und Britische Gesellschaft vor dem ersten Weltkrieg. He said that writing Klausuren, giving presentations and having student-friends really challenged him linguistically, as the register was very different from that of everyday life. He found the academic standard universally high, class sizes small, and the teaching methods varied.Back to topInformation for prospective applicants thinking of studying German at Cambridge.Find out moreCambridge Online German for Schools (COGS) is a core element of the Cambridge German NetworkFind out moreThe Poetics of Personhood - Conference on 22 September22 September 2017Dr Michael Minden & Dr Annja Neumann from the Department of German & Dutch, together with Prof Leonard Olschner from QMUL are organising a one-day conference at Magdalene College.Alfred Döblin Conference in Cambridge 18-20 September 201718 September 2017Prof David Midgley, Dr Martin Ruehl from the Department of German and Dutch and Dr Steffan Davies from the University of Bristol are organising the 21. Alfred Döblin-Kolloquium here in Cambridge, at St John's college.Prof Joachim Whaley opened exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen11 August 2017On 5 August 2017 Professor Joachim Whaley opened the latest exhibition in Schloss Friedenstein in Gotha, Thüringen with a lecture on the Duchess Luise Dorothea von Sachsen-Gotha-Altenburg.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeProspective StudentsThe Faculty currently has approximately 80 MPhil students and 140 doctoral students across six sections. The Faculty's mission is to provide undergraduate and postgraduate education of the highest quality in languages and language-related studies. Leaders in world-class scholarship and teaching, our academic staff are pioneering researchers in a wide range of fields that include the phenomenon of human language itself, individual European languages and language families, and the literatures, art forms, film, history, and cultures associated with those languages both today and in the past.The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages at Cambridge is a large but closely-knit Faculty, offering teaching and research facilities in Dutch, French, Occitan, German, Italian, Modern Greek, Neo-Latin, Russian, Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese and Linguistics, among other areas such as comparative literature and film. A wide range of expertise is available within the Faculty for supervising research. The MML Faculty Library has a very good collection of literary and critical texts, and the University Library is a research library of international renown. A Language Centre services the entire University, and houses an extensive collection of European and World Cinema on DVD and video. The Faculty has a Graduate Centre with computing, study, seminar and social areas. The facilities include extensive IT, printing, and copying resources, TV, video and DVD. The Raised Faculty Building also has a Media Centre, with film facilities.© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeProspective StudentsThe Faculty currently has approximately 80 MPhil students and 140 doctoral students across six sections. The Faculty's mission is to provide undergraduate and postgraduate education of the highest quality in languages and language-related studies. Leaders in world-class scholarship and teaching, our academic staff are pioneering researchers in a wide range of fields that include the phenomenon of human language itself, individual European languages and language families, and the literatures, art forms, film, history, and cultures associated with those languages both today and in the past.The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages at Cambridge is a large but closely-knit Faculty, offering teaching and research facilities in Dutch, French, Occitan, German, Italian, Modern Greek, Neo-Latin, Russian, Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese and Linguistics, among other areas such as comparative literature and film. A wide range of expertise is available within the Faculty for supervising research. The MML Faculty Library has a very good collection of literary and critical texts, and the University Library is a research library of international renown. A Language Centre services the entire University, and houses an extensive collection of European and World Cinema on DVD and video. The Faculty has a Graduate Centre with computing, study, seminar and social areas. The facilities include extensive IT, printing, and copying resources, TV, video and DVD. The Raised Faculty Building also has a Media Centre, with film facilities.© 2017 University of CambridgeProspective StudentsThe Faculty currently has approximately 80 MPhil students and 140 doctoral students across six sections. The Faculty's mission is to provide undergraduate and postgraduate education of the highest quality in languages and language-related studies. Leaders in world-class scholarship and teaching, our academic staff are pioneering researchers in a wide range of fields that include the phenomenon of human language itself, individual European languages and language families, and the literatures, art forms, film, history, and cultures associated with those languages both today and in the past.The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages at Cambridge is a large but closely-knit Faculty, offering teaching and research facilities in Dutch, French, Occitan, German, Italian, Modern Greek, Neo-Latin, Russian, Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese and Linguistics, among other areas such as comparative literature and film. A wide range of expertise is available within the Faculty for supervising research. The MML Faculty Library has a very good collection of literary and critical texts, and the University Library is a research library of international renown. A Language Centre services the entire University, and houses an extensive collection of European and World Cinema on DVD and video. The Faculty has a Graduate Centre with computing, study, seminar and social areas. The facilities include extensive IT, printing, and copying resources, TV, video and DVD. The Raised Faculty Building also has a Media Centre, with film facilities.© 2017 University of CambridgeApplying to MMLHomeAll applications must be made via the online application form (Applicant Portal) available on the Graduate Admissions Office website.It is important that you read through the information available on the Graduate Admissions Office website before submitting your application.If you are seeking funding for your course, there are specific deadlines and eligibility criteria for each funding competition. Please check the Funding and Funding Deadlines section of the Graduate Admissions Office website for application deadlines and links to funding information. The final deadline for applicants seeking funding is 4 January 2018.  Earlier deadlines will apply if you are a US applicant living in the US.  We recommend that applicants prepare their supporting documentation and apply well in advance of the final deadlines.  Even if you are not seeking funding, we strongly recommend that you submit your application before 4 January 2018, as no applications will be accepted once programmes are full.If places are still available on programmes beyond this deadline; self-funded applicants will continue to be considered until the final deadline of 31 May 2018.Please note that funding from Cambridge is highly competitive.  Approximately two thirds of our MPhil students are self funded (including those with loans). Cambridge Funding SearchJebb Fund (PhD)Gibson Spanish Scholarship (PhD) Santander Hispanic and Lusophone MPhil ScholarshipsExternal fundingUK/EU Student LoansSykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in ItalianFor more detailed information on applying, please click on the relevant links on the left hand menu.© 2017 University of CambridgeApplyingApplyingWho should applyApplications for the MPhil course are welcomed from those who have or expect to obtain a good first degree (at least a high 2.1 or the equivalent). If you are not a native English speaker we would expect you to have passed an English Language Proficiency test at the required level. The following examinations with minimum scores are accepted: IELTS 7.5 (with a minimum of 7 in each unit); TOEFL iBT 110 (with at least 25 in each individual element); CAE Grade A or B (with at least 193 in each individual element) plus a language centre assessment; CPE Grade A, B or C (with at least 200 in each individual element).  Normally students taking the MPhil have spent some time studying linguistics or related subjects at undergraduate level, but, occasionally, exceptions will be considered. Many students move straight into the MPhil after their first degree, but others come to it after a number of years away from formal study.How to applyYou can apply online at the Graduate Admissions website.  Their site also provides detail on the course structure and content; fee rates; information on the College system; and information regarding the application process.Supporting documentsOnce you have submitted your Applicant Portal application online and paid the application fee, you will later receive an email which will grant you access to your Applicant Self-Service.  At this stage you will be able to upload your supporting documents.Your nominated referees will be sent an automated email when you submit your application, inviting them to upload their references directly to the system.  Further information on supporting documents can be found on the Graduate Admissions website.Consideration of applicationsPlease note that admissions are considered using a gathered field system.  This allows all applicants who apply by a given date (e.g. by each of the relevant funding deadlines) to be considered on an equal basis, however it does mean that those who apply early will need to be patient with us before they hear the outcome of their application.Course informationFurther course information is available here.© 2017 University of CambridgeAHRC funding Applying The University of Cambridge has been successful in its bid for an Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Doctoral Training Partnership. The University is therefore pleased to invite applications from outstanding Home/EU candidates interested in receiving AHRC doctoral studentships for October 2018 entry.Studentships are available in a wide range of arts and humanities subjects, offered in departments and faculties throughout the University of Cambridge. These studentships offer an exceptional opportunity for all students interested in working towards an arts and humanities doctorate within a world-leading research environment.For more information, visit: www.ahrcdtp.csah.cam.ac.ukStudents intending to study at Cambridge do not make an application to the AHRC, but apply for AHRC by means of the application form (Applicant Portal) for study at Cambridge (tick the relevant box on the form to say that you wish to be considered for AHRC funding). MML will nominate students to the University for an award.As part of the AHRC selection process, MML are additionally nominating one PhD candidate starting in 2018/19 for a prestigious Wolfson Foundation award. The award covers full fees and maintenance starting at approx. £16,500 p.a. year, and includes a generous Research Allowance. No application is required: eligible candidates will be considered automatically.The process and timetable for students wishing to apply to Modern & Medieval Languages (MML) is as follows:4 January 2018
This is the deadline for receipt of applications. Please ensure your online application is made by this date at the very latest. Detail on making an application and links to the application process can be found on the Graduate Admissions website. It is recommended that  you start your application several weeks in advance of the deadline as you will need to ensure that your supporting documentation and references are uploaded before the deadline.Further information including eligibility criteria is available on the Cambridge AHRC DTP website.The form will ask you to provide a Research Proposal. Your Research Proposal should cover the following points:If you have already begun your doctoral study, please remember to refer to the research you have undertaken to date. If you are applying for doctoral funding for a third time, you must also include justification for this further application. New and continuing students should complete the AHRC section under “Scholarships” on the Graduate Applicant Portal.Current PhD students should complete an AHRC application form, which is available from the Cambridge AHRC webpage and send it to the Scholarship Administrator at graduate.funding@admin.cam.ac.uk (cc to gradadmin@mml.cam.ac.uk) by the same funding deadline. Two references are required, one of which should be from your current supervisor.  You should ask your Supervisor to email the reference directly.4 January 2018: Deadline for receipt of applicationsmid March onwards 2018: Successful applicants will be notifiedAHRC interviews will be held on a rolling basis, so you might be invited for interview any time between October 2017 and mid-February 2018. The Faculty or Department will contact shortlisted candidates directly to agree interview dates. All interviews will be completed by mid-February 2018 at the very latest.In the event that an awardee is unable to take up their offer, the award would normally be offered to the next candidate on our shortlist. So if you do not hear a decision particularly early, it could be that the University are waiting to see if any candidates do not accept their award, for any reason, so please be patient with us.© 2017 University of CambridgeApplyingMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesWho should applyApplications for the MPhil course are welcomed from those who have or expect to obtain a good first degree (at least a high 2.1 or the equivalent) in Modern European Language/Culture.  Other humanities degrees are also considered.  If you are not a native English speaker we would expect you to have passed an English Language Proficiency test at the required level. The following examinations with minimum scores are accepted: IELTS 7.5 (with a minimum of 7 in each unit); TOEFL iBT 110 (with at least 25 in each individual element); CAE Grade A or B (with at least 193 in each individual element) plus a language centre assessment; CPE Grade A, B or C (with at least 200 in each individual element).  How to applyYou can apply online at the Graduate Admissions website.  Their site also provides detail on the course structure and content; fee rates; information on the College system; and information regarding the application process.Supporting documentsOnce you have submitted your Applicant Portal application online and paid the application fee, you will later receive an email which will grant you access to your Applicant Self-Service.  At this stage you will be able to upload your supporting documents.Your nominated referees will be sent an automated email when you submit your application, inviting them to upload their references directly to the system.  Further information on supporting documents can be found on the Graduate Admissions website.Consideration of applicationsPlease note that admissions are considered using a gathered field system.  This allows all applicants who apply by a given date (e.g. by each of the relevant funding deadlines) to be considered on an equal basis, however it does mean that those who apply early will need to be patient with us before they hear the outcome of their application.Course informationFurther course information is available here.   © 2017 University of CambridgeApplyingApplyingWho should applyApplications for the MPhil course are welcomed from those who have or expect to obtain a good first degree (at least a high 2.1 or the equivalent).  Applicants with degrees in film or media studies and related disciplines are encouraged to apply, as are students with backgrounds in literary studies, art history and other areas.If you are not a native English speaker we would expect you to have passed an English Language Proficiency test at the required level. The following examinations with minimum scores are accepted: IELTS 7.5 (with a minimum of 7 in each unit); TOEFL iBT 110 (with at least 25 in each individual element); CAE Grade A or B (with at least 193 in each individual element) plus a language centre assessment; CPE Grade A, B or C (with at least 200 in each individual element).  How to applyYou can apply online at the Graduate Admissions website.  Their site also provides detail on the course structure and content; fee rates; information on the College system; and information regarding the application process.Supporting documentsOnce you have submitted your Applicant Portal application online and paid the application fee, you will later receive an email which will grant you access to your Applicant Self-Service.  At this stage you will be able to upload your supporting documents.Your nominated referees will be sent an automated email when you submit your application, inviting them to upload their references directly to the system.  Further information on supporting documents can be found on the Graduate Admissions website.Consideration of applicationsApplications will be considered on a rolling basis throughout the year.  However applicants are strongly encouraged to apply as early as possible.Further informationPlease see the overview of applying section for general information on applying funding options.  For further course information please see the Film and Screen Studies mini-site.© 2017 University of CambridgeCambridge Postgraduate Open DayApplyingThe University of Cambridge are hosting a Postgraduate open Day on Friday 3 November 2017.  This unique event is organised by the Graduate Admissions Office in conjunction with the University's Departments and the Colleges. The day is open to all undergraduate students and graduates who are considering applying for postgraduate study.Please see the Graduate Admissions website for further information.© 2017 University of CambridgeApplyingApplyingPhD study is offered in each of the Faculty's Departments: French, German & Dutch, Italian, Slavonic Studies, and Spanish & Portuguese and Theoretical and Applied Linguistics. Further, with the recent launch of the Centre for Film and Screen, students are now able to apply for the PhD in Film and Screen Studies.RequirementsApplicants for PhD study should have achieved a strong honours degree in a relevant field, with clear evidence of research potential, and a distinction in their UK Masters Degree (or equivalent).For those applying to continue from the MPhil to PhD, the minimum academic standard is a distinction on the MPhil.If you are not a native English speaker we would expect you to have passed an English Language Proficiency test at the required level. The following examinations with minimum scores are accepted: IELTS 7.5 (with a minimum of 7 in each unit); TOEFL iBT 110 (with at least 25 in each individual element); CAE Grade A or B (with at least 193 in each individual element) plus a language centre assessment; CPE Grade A, B or C (with at least 200 in each individual element).  Other (non-English) language skills in a particular area may be required depending on the specific nature of your research proposal.How to applyYou can apply online at the Graduate Admissions website.  Their site also provides detail on the course structure and content; fee rates; information on the College system; and information regarding the application process.Supporting documentsOnce you have submitted your Applicant Portal application online and paid the application fee, you will later receive an email which will grant you access to your Applicant Self-Service.  At this stage you will be able to upload your supporting documents.In the applications portal you will be asked to enter details of your nominated referees.  They will then be sent an automated email asking them to provide an electronic reference via the applications portal.  It is recommended that you allow several weeks before the application/funding deadline to allow time for this process.Further information on supporting documents can be found on the Graduate Admissions website.Consideration of applicationsPlease note that admissions are considered on a rolling basis thoughout the year.  Applicants are encouraged to apply as early as possible.Further informationPlease refer to the relevant Departmental/Centre website: Centre for Film and Screen, French, German & Dutch, Italian, Slavonic Studies, Spanish & Portuguese, Theoretical and Applied Linguistics. Consortium in Latin American Cultural Studies If you are applying to the Department of Spanish and Portuguese and wish to work on any topic within Latin American literary, visual or cultural studies, you may wish to read about the new Consortium in Latin American Cultural Studies for PhD students. © 2017 University of CambridgeWolfson Postgraduate Scholarships ApplyingCambridge University has been selected as one of the few institutions in the UK to be awarded Wolfson Postgraduate Scholarships in the Humanities for PhD students.As part of the AHRC selection process, the University will be nominating one PhD candidate starting in 2018/19 for a prestigious Wolfson Foundation award. One full scholarship is available to students across the University applying for entry in October 2018 in the area of Literature and Languages.  The award covers full fees and maintenance starting at approx. £16,500 per year (for three years), and includes a generous Research Allowance.Applicants should submit their application for admission by 4 January 2018.  No separate application form is required.  Eligible applicants will be considered automatically.4 January 2018 is the deadline for receipt of applications. Please ensure your application for admission is made by this date at the very latest. Details on making an application and links to the application process can be found on the Graduate Admissions website.   © 2017 University of CambridgeGraduate CommitteesHome  The Degree Committee has the statutory duty for overseeing the admission, progress and examination of graduate students in the Faculty, including formal matters such as appointment of supervisors, examiners, the approval of dissertation and thesis titles, and requests for the deferral of submission and intermission. One of the most important tasks of the Degree Committee is to receive the reports of individual examiners for MPhil theses and PhD dissertations. The Degree Committee approves and awards the MPhil directly, and makes recommendations to the Board of Graduate Studies as to whether a student should or should not be awarded the degree of PhD.The Graduate Studies Committee formulates, implements and monitors Faculty policy and procedures in relation to postgraduate education and administration in the Faculty, and provides a forum for the discussion, development and dissemination of good practice at postgraduate level.Prof Adam Ledgeway is Chairman of the Faculty.  Dr Sheila Watts is the Academic Secretary to the Degree Committee, and Director of Graduate Studies.© 2017 University of CambridgeGraduate CommitteesHome  The Degree Committee has the statutory duty for overseeing the admission, progress and examination of graduate students in the Faculty, including formal matters such as appointment of supervisors, examiners, the approval of dissertation and thesis titles, and requests for the deferral of submission and intermission. One of the most important tasks of the Degree Committee is to receive the reports of individual examiners for MPhil theses and PhD dissertations. The Degree Committee approves and awards the MPhil directly, and makes recommendations to the Board of Graduate Studies as to whether a student should or should not be awarded the degree of PhD.The Graduate Studies Committee formulates, implements and monitors Faculty policy and procedures in relation to postgraduate education and administration in the Faculty, and provides a forum for the discussion, development and dissemination of good practice at postgraduate level.Prof Adam Ledgeway is Chairman of the Faculty.  Dr Sheila Watts is the Academic Secretary to the Degree Committee, and Director of Graduate Studies.© 2017 University of CambridgeMeeting datesCommitteesDC = Degree CommitteeGSC = Graduate Studies Committee  
    © 2017 University of CambridgeMembership and contactsCommittees Chair of the Faculty Board (Chair): Prof Adam LedgewayAcademic Secretary to the Degree Committee (ex officio Director of Graduate Studies): Dr Sheila WattsFrench: Prof Bill BurgwinkleGerman & Dutch: Prof Andrew WebberItalian: Prof Robert GordonSlavonic Studies: Dr Emma WiddisSpanish & Portuguese : Dr Ioanna SitaridouTheoretical & Applied Linguistics: Dr Brechtje PostFaculty Administrator (in attendance): Mrs Olivia SpeedGraduate Secretary (Secretary): Miss April McIntyre Academic Secretary to the Degree Committee: Dr Sheila WattsAdministrative contact: Miss April McIntyre Director of Graduate Studies (Chair): Dr Sheila WattsFrench: Prof Bill BurgwinkleGerman & Dutch: Prof Andrew WebberItalian: Prof Robert Gordon Slavonic Studies: Dr Emma WiddisSpanish & Portuguese: Dr Ioanna Sitaridou​Theoretical &Applied Linguistics: Dr Brechtje PostDirector of MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures: Dr Geoffrey KantarisDirector of MPhil in Film and Screen Studies: Dr JD RhodesDirector of MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics: Prof Francis NolanChair of the Faculty Board: Prof Adam LedgewayFaculty Administrator (in attendance): Mrs Olivia SpeedGraduate Administrator (Secretary): Ms Alison Bingham Director of Graduate Studies: Dr Sheila WattsAdministrative contact: Alison Bingham© 2017 University of CambridgeGraduate contactsHomeThe Faculty's Graduate Office is on the the first floor of the Raised Faculty Building (RFB), in room 104. Please contact the Graduate Secretary, April McIntyre, for any graduate enquiries (other than Linguistics) in the first instance. The Graduate Administrators (job share role), Alison Bingham and Rachel Burgess, are also based in Room 104. For graduate Linguistics enquiries, The Graduate Secretary for Theoretical and Applied Linguistics, Louise Radok, is on the second floor, in Room 221.Director of Graduate Studies / Academic Secretary to the Degree Commitee:Dr Sheila WattsMPhil Course Director, European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures:Dr Geoffrey Kantaris​MPhil Course Director, Film and Screen Studies:Dr John David RhodesMPhil Course Director, Theoretical and Applied Linguistics: Prof Francis Nolan© 2017 University of CambridgeAssessmentMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesThe taught elements of the M.Phil (core course plus two modules) will be assessed by course work comprising three 4,500-word essays, one at the end of the first term, and two at the end of the second. Those taking the Medieval and Early Modern Pathway through the Core Course can opt to be assessed by a paleographic exercise. There is no unseen examination.During the Easter term, students write a thesis. Theses must, according to the criteria laid down by the Board of Graduate Studies, 'represent a contribution to learning'. Theses must be written in English. The arrangements for their preparation are similar to those for the essays. Titles are chosen by students, in consultation with module convenors and/or prospective supervisors, and then have to be approved by the Faculty Degree Committee.Topics and precise thesis titles must be submitted by a specific deadline in Lent Term. Up to this point the Course Director is the titular supervisor of MPhil students, but once the thesis topics are approved, a specialist supervisor is appointed for each student. Students are entitled to up to four hour-long sessions with their supervisor. (In the event that a thesis is co-supervised, a candidate may expect two hours of individual teaching from each supervisor. Only one supervisor should comment on the full draft of the thesis.)Each element of the assessment is scrutinised independently by two examiners, and may be referred to the External Examiner, whose role is to act as moderator to the entire process of assessment.© 2017 University of CambridgeMedieval and Early Modern PathwayMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesThe pathway is aimed at students registered in the MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures who wish to specialize in subjects linked to Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. The course offers tailored training to students working in this field, providing theoretical and practical tools to read, understand and work on pre-modern sources. The pathway is a flexible structure that can be adjusted to particular needs and interests offering a wide range of approaches to a variety of texts and historical contexts. This course is particularly suited to students wishing to pursue their graduate studies further and work on a PhD in Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. Students interested will have to register to the pathway at the beginning of the academic year.Students will attend the Core Course Lectures of the ELAC programme.Students must choose 2 seminars.Students should study at least one of the following seminars, but if they wish they can also choose one of the other seminars offered in the ELAC programme.Students will choose 2 of the the following modules:Students will write 1 essay for the Core Course (1st term) on a specific topic related to one of the seminars followed. Essays will be 4,500 words long. In the case of the Paleography and editorial techniques seminar, students will be assessed with a 4,500-word essay, of which around 1,500 will be the text edited or transcribed and around 3,000 the introductory study, footnotes and-or critical apparatus. In the second term, students will write 2 essays based on material related to the modules followed, and a 15,000-word thesis in the third term.FrenchProfessor Bill BurgwinkleDr Liz GuildDr Timothy ChestersDr Mark DarlowDr Emma GilbyDr Miranda GriffinDr Nicholas HammondProfessor Sylvia HuotDr John Leigh Dr Jenny Mander Professor Michael Moriarty Spanish and PortugueseDr Louise HaywoodDr Rodrigo CachoDr Elizabeth DraysonGerman and DutchDr Mark ChincaProfessor Joachim WhaleyDr Charlotte WoodfordProfessor Christopher Young ItalianDr Abigail BrundinDr Helena SansonDr Heather WebbSlavonic StudiesDr Olenka PevnyTheoretical and Applied LinguisticsProfessor Wendy BennettNeo-LatinDr Andrew TaylorPaleography and the History of the BookDr Anne CobbyDr David McKitterickMr Ed PottenFor more information on the Pathway, please contact Dr Rodrigo Cacho© 2017 University of CambridgeModulesMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesDuring the summer months before term starts, students are asked to pre-select two modules from the list below. This list can change from year to year depending on the availability of academic staff. We will also ask students for back-up choices just in case modules are under or over-subscribed, but we endeavour to offer first preferences where possible. Codes used above: ID = Interdisciplinary; FR = French; GE = German; IT = Italian; SL = Slavonic; SP = Spanish & Portuguese; SP LA = Spanish & Portuguese/Latin American© 2017 University of CambridgeMedieval and Early Modern PathwayMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesThe pathway is aimed at students registered in the MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures who wish to specialize in subjects linked to Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. The course offers tailored training to students working in this field, providing theoretical and practical tools to read, understand and work on pre-modern sources. The pathway is a flexible structure that can be adjusted to particular needs and interests offering a wide range of approaches to a variety of texts and historical contexts. This course is particularly suited to students wishing to pursue their graduate studies further and work on a PhD in Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. Students interested will have to register to the pathway at the beginning of the academic year.Students will attend the Core Course Lectures of the ELAC programme.Students must choose 2 seminars.Students should study at least one of the following seminars, but if they wish they can also choose one of the other seminars offered in the ELAC programme.Students will choose 2 of the the following modules:Students will write 1 essay for the Core Course (1st term) on a specific topic related to one of the seminars followed. Essays will be 4,500 words long. In the case of the Paleography and editorial techniques seminar, students will be assessed with a 4,500-word essay, of which around 1,500 will be the text edited or transcribed and around 3,000 the introductory study, footnotes and-or critical apparatus. In the second term, students will write 2 essays based on material related to the modules followed, and a 15,000-word thesis in the third term.FrenchProfessor Bill BurgwinkleDr Liz GuildDr Timothy ChestersDr Mark DarlowDr Emma GilbyDr Miranda GriffinDr Nicholas HammondProfessor Sylvia HuotDr John Leigh Dr Jenny Mander Professor Michael Moriarty Spanish and PortugueseDr Louise HaywoodDr Rodrigo CachoDr Elizabeth DraysonGerman and DutchDr Mark ChincaProfessor Joachim WhaleyDr Charlotte WoodfordProfessor Christopher Young ItalianDr Abigail BrundinDr Helena SansonDr Heather WebbSlavonic StudiesDr Olenka PevnyTheoretical and Applied LinguisticsProfessor Wendy BennettNeo-LatinDr Andrew TaylorPaleography and the History of the BookDr Anne CobbyDr David McKitterickMr Ed PottenFor more information on the Pathway, please contact Dr Rodrigo Cacho© 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil CourseworkMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesThese notes deal with the process of choosing a topic, the teaching you can expect to receive, and the presentation of the finished essay. You can seek further advice on these matters, if you want it, from the course director, from the convenor of the module for which the essay is being written, the lecturers and seminar-leaders involved in it, and from the supervisor assigned for your thesis.EssaysChoosing a topic
Essays are to be written on a topic chosen individually by each student in consultation with one of the course lecturers or seminar-leaders, and relating to the lectures or seminars on the course. Essays do not have to be 'original' in the sense of discovering new material or presenting previously unpublished ideas, but they should show evidence of independent research, interpretation and judgement.Students may plan their essays as part of an ongoing research enterprise, fitting in with their other essays and their thesis, if they wish, but they are also at liberty to write an entirely self-sufficient piece. While there may well be a continuity of ideas between the different pieces of work, each must stand in its own right, and any substantial duplication of argument will be subject to penalty. Students may well find it useful to test out their idea for the essay in a seminar paper.The Critical Theory essay may be either 'pure' or 'applied', that is, it may study some aspect of a theory at first hand, or it may explore the implications of a theory in relation to a chosen text or texts. The main aim here is to show the critical ability to handle and assess theoretical positions; while references to literary or other cultural material should of course be accurate and well-judged, candidates are not expected to show as substantial a contextual or bibliographical range in this respect as for the module essays. Essay topics and title will first require approval from the Course Director. The Faculty Degree Committee then has the final say in approving topics. The deadlines for providing topics and titles are shown at the end of this page.Language of Essays
All students must submit their Core Course essay in English. In January, after Core Course marks have been received, any student who wishes to submit a module essay in a language other than English should seek formal permission from the course director and the relevant supervisor. The chosen language should be appropriate to the essay topic and there should be good intellectual reasons for submitting the work in that language. The course director should also be satisfied that the candidate has reached a satisfactory standard in written English in the Core Course essay. It should still be recognised that the ability to produce fluent critical work in English is one of the key skills tested by the MPhil.Teaching
Students may choose to use seminars as a place to test out their ideas for an essay and obtain feedback on them. But they are also entitled to up to one hour individual supervision for each essay, and this may be divided into half-hour sessions, providing advice on focusing the topic, suggestions for relevant reading, and comments on a rough draft. (In the event that an essay is co-supervised, a candidate may expect 30 minutes of individual supervision from each supervisor. Only one supervisor should comment on the full draft of the essay). Usually the supervisor for each essay will be the senior member most obviously identified with the topic in question: for example, the person who gave the most closely related lecture or led the most closely related seminar. If in doubt as to whom to approach, consult the convenor of the module or the MPhil Course Director. If you encounter any difficulty in your contacts with your supervisor please seek advice from the MPhil Course Director.Presentation
We suggest that you use the conventions of presentation recommended in the MHRA Style Book - please note that this book explains BOTH a footnote style, and an author-date style. The author-date style is useful for saving on your word count (since bibliographic footnotes are part of the word count but the bibliography itself is not included in the word count). A copy is available to download from the MHRA website. Successful essays submitted by previous years' MPhil students may also be consulted (but they must not be taken away or photocopied), and are available in the MML Library. Correct expression is a requisite for successful presentation of written work. Work with frequent misspellings or inconsistent use of conventions, will be marked down. Candidates may seek advice on matters of style and grammatical accuracy from a native speaker of English.Essays must be typed or word-processed, double-spaced, with adequate margins, on single sides of A4 paper. Two copies of the essay must be submitted (so that the two examiners may read them simultaneously). Each essay should be presented in a semi-durable 'soft spiral' plastic or cardboard binding (as provided by the Graduate Union). In the case of the module essays, the module to which the essay relates should be clearly designated on the title page. An electronic copy of each essay must also be submitted silmultaneously (see under 'dates for submission of essays'). Permission to incude an appendix must be sought from the Course Director, or they will be included in the essay wordcount.Length - A reminder that the word-limits for the essays and thesis are strictly enforced. In the case of the essays, a word count of 4,500 should never be exceeded. In the case of the thesis, a word count of 15,000 words should never be exceeded. The length includes notes but excludes the bibliography. The word count must be stated clearly at the end of each essay and at the end of the thesis. The wordcount (which must include footnotes) of the electronic copy will be checked. The examiners can and do deduct marks for even minor infractions.Planning - Before you begin to write in earnest, draw up an outline plan (no more than one A4 sheet). This will clarify your intentions as a basis for initial guidance as to scope and organisation from your supervisor.Sectioning etc. - It can be helpful to subdivide your argument into titled sections, especially to signpost the reader through the longer thesis format. Excessive subdivision can, of course, be counter-productive. If in doubt, consult your supervisor. In the case of theses a contents page will provide useful orientation. Remember to number pages.References - Whether you choose to cite the work of others by direct quotation or by careful paraphrase will clearly depend upon how particular its significance is for your argument. Any points of substance, quoted or paraphrased from other authors, should be properly attributed, using a clear and consistent format. The author/date method is probably most practical for this type of work since it saves on words, as mentioned above. It uses the author's surname, followed by the date of publication in brackets: (Kittler 1981)​ or "As Kittler (1981: 157) says, ....". Where a specific passage is involved, add page numbers : (Kittler 1981: 157-8). If you are citing more than one work of the same year by the same author, distinguish them as follows: (Kittler 1992a)/(Kittler 1992b). If two cited authors share the same surname, add their initials: (F. Kittler 1981)/(W. Kittler 1986). Double-authored works are referred to thus: ​(Kittler and Schmidt 1990). Longer author lists are given in full in the first citation and may subsequently be abbreviated as follows: ​(Kittler et al. 1996).Examples:List of References - An alphabetically organised section, headed References, at the end of your document should give full details of all cited works. Remember to note these details carefully when consulting the texts concerned, rather than having to scramble to find them with a deadline looming. If you wish to list works which have informed your argument without being cited in it, do so under a separate heading (Other sources). No single style is imposed, but students should state which convention they are using at the beginning of the essays and thesis.Most publishers have their own house-style for references, but in conjunction with the author/date system it makes sense to set out the references as follows:For books:
Butler, J. 1990. Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity. London: RoutledgeFor journal articles:
Brooks, P. 1977. 'Freud's Masterplot: Questions of Narrative', Yale French Studies 55/56, 280-300For contributions to edited volumes:
Habermas, J. 1992. 'Modernity - An Incomplete Project', in: P. Waugh (ed.), Postmodernism: A Reader. London: Edward ArnoldFootnotes - Keep these to a minimum. In general, if something is worth saying, it is worth saying it in the main text.The best way of ensuring that you are meeting the right standards of style and presentation is by allowing time before submission for your supervisor to read a final draft.Dates for submission of essays
The deadline for submission of hard copies of the core course essays is 12 noon on Wednesday 6 December 2017. Essays should be submitted to the Graduate Office (room 104). For module essays, the deadline is 12 noon on Wednesday 14 March 2018. See more key dates here. Since both of the module essays are due on the same date, you may prefer to submit one of them earlier. Extensions will not normally be granted. If exceptional circumstances mean that you wish to seek an extension, you must do so with the support of your College Tutor who should write a letter making the request to the course director.Students are also required to provide an electronic copy of their work (in Word format), as an email attachment, to graduatestudies@mml.cam.ac.uk, by the same deadline as the hard copy. In the body of the email, students should declare that the e-copy version is identical to the submitted hard copy. The electronic copy does not replace paper submission - handing in a hard copy of the essay is what constitutes formal submission.  You may also provide an additional pdf copy if you are worried about the formatting of the Word document (for example if you have inserted images etc).  Divulging of marks
When the essays have been marked, students will be informed individually of the mark awarded and given a copy of the assessors' report. These marks are absolutely confidential. No student is entitled to know or discuss any other student's mark. Students may obtain feedback on their performance from the person who taught them, and seek advice on how to improve if necessary. The course director is also available (in office hours) to provide advice and help if called upon.Theses
Theses must, according to the criteria laid down by the Board of Graduate Studies, 'represent a contribution to learning'. Theses must be written in English. The arrangements for their preparation are similar to those for the essays. Titles are chosen by students, in consultation with module convenors and/or prospective supervisors, and then have to be approved by the Course Director and the Faculty Degree Committee. Topics must be submitted by 26 January 2018, and titles by 25 May 2018 (NB: Minor changes to the thesis title are permitted after this date. Up to this point the course director is the titular supervisor of MPhil students, but once the thesis topics are approved, a specialist supervisor is appointed for each student. Students are entitled to up to four hour-long sessions with their supervisor. (In the event that a thesis is co-supervised, a candidate may expect 2 hours of individual supervision from each supervisor. Only one supervisor should comment on the full draft of the thesis). Theses should conform to the same guidelines for presentation as the essays. The word limit for the thesis is 15,000 words including footnotes but excluding bibliography and the word-count should be indicated at the end of the thesis. The thesis is not allowed to exceed the word limit, though it may be shorter. The deadline for submission (two copies) and e-copy is 12 noon on 7 June 2018.© 2017 University of CambridgeProspective StudentsThe Faculty currently has approximately 80 MPhil students and 140 doctoral students across six sections. The Faculty's mission is to provide undergraduate and postgraduate education of the highest quality in languages and language-related studies. Leaders in world-class scholarship and teaching, our academic staff are pioneering researchers in a wide range of fields that include the phenomenon of human language itself, individual European languages and language families, and the literatures, art forms, film, history, and cultures associated with those languages both today and in the past.The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages at Cambridge is a large but closely-knit Faculty, offering teaching and research facilities in Dutch, French, Occitan, German, Italian, Modern Greek, Neo-Latin, Russian, Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese and Linguistics, among other areas such as comparative literature and film. A wide range of expertise is available within the Faculty for supervising research. The MML Faculty Library has a very good collection of literary and critical texts, and the University Library is a research library of international renown. A Language Centre services the entire University, and houses an extensive collection of European and World Cinema on DVD and video. The Faculty has a Graduate Centre with computing, study, seminar and social areas. The facilities include extensive IT, printing, and copying resources, TV, video and DVD. The Raised Faculty Building also has a Media Centre, with film facilities.© 2017 University of CambridgeGraduate HandbookHomeThe Graduate Handbook is a valuable resource for MPhil and PhD students as it contains information about the Faculty and useful contact details, as well as detailed course information and general information about studying at MML.The Graduate Handbook for 2017-18 is available: here.© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil Examining GuidelinesMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesExamining guidelines for each academic year are finalised and approved at the end of each academic year. The guidelines available at the link below are for 2017/18. The core examining elements are the same from year to year: students submit a Core Course essay in the Michaelmas term, two Module essays in the Lent term, and a thesis in the Easter term.Examining Guidelines 2017-18© 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil CoursesThe MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures (ELAC) provides you with the critical and theoretical tools to enable you to undertake in-depth study of specific aspects of European literature and culture and/or Latin American and Francophone contexts. It introduces you to a broad range of critical theory concepts and includes the writing of a thesis based on original research. You take three taught courses consisting of lectures and seminars, one of which is a core course in critical theory.The course has a Medieval and Early Modern Pathway for students who wish to specialize in subjects linked to Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. There is also a Latin American Pathway: two modules run in conjunction with the MPhil in Latin American Studies, one of which is a module on Latin American Film. It is also possible to borrow modules from the MPhil in Screen Media and Cultures, and the MPhil in English Studies: Criticism and Culture, run by the Faculty of English.Generally, students receive, over the academic year, 40 hours of seminars, 16 hours of lecture classes, and 6 hours of one-to-one supervision.© 2017 University of CambridgeFunding for the ELAC MPhilMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesFunding opportunities for the MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures are part of a centralized cross-University system. When you apply for the MPhil, by specific deadlines depending on the central funding competition, you simply indicate that you wish to be considered for the specific source of funding listed on the application form.Central funding competitions for full or partial scholarships are: Gates Cambridge (overseas and EU only); Cambridge Trusts (overseas, EU and home); the AHRC (home and EU). Funding deadlines are generally early October of the previous year for overseas, early December for EU students, and early January for home students.There are also some sources of non-centralized funding, such as scholarships offered by individual Colleges. For more information, consult individual college web sites, or the Cambridge Student Funding database.For student of Hispanic and Lusophone studies, Clare College in conjunction with the ELAC MPhil offers two Santander scholarships of £15,000 each to students applying for the MPhil. Applications will be considered by the Faculty and awarded to the two best placed applicants wishing to work on Hispanic or Lusophone studies who have not received any other scholarship or external economic support. Candidates do NOT need to apply initially to Clare College to be considered for funding. For further information, please see: http://www.clare.cam.ac.uk/Santander-Hispanic-and-Lusophone-MPhil-Schola....Funding is, unfortunately, highly competitive, and to have a realistic chance with the above competitions, you should have qualifications of at least First Class or equivalent level (generally CGPA 3.75 and above, depending on the university). If you have any queries, please contact the Director.© 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil CoursesThe MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures (ELAC) provides you with the critical and theoretical tools to enable you to undertake in-depth study of specific aspects of European literature and culture and/or Latin American and Francophone contexts. It introduces you to a broad range of critical theory concepts and includes the writing of a thesis based on original research. You take three taught courses consisting of lectures and seminars, one of which is a core course in critical theory.The course has a Medieval and Early Modern Pathway for students who wish to specialize in subjects linked to Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. There is also a Latin American Pathway: two modules run in conjunction with the MPhil in Latin American Studies, one of which is a module on Latin American Film. It is also possible to borrow modules from the MPhil in Screen Media and Cultures, and the MPhil in English Studies: Criticism and Culture, run by the Faculty of English.Generally, students receive, over the academic year, 40 hours of seminars, 16 hours of lecture classes, and 6 hours of one-to-one supervision.© 2017 University of CambridgeCore CourseMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesThe course offers an overview of central concepts of modern literary/cultural theory together with the chance to study in depth the work of two theoretical contexts. The overview is provided in the form of a series of eight lecture classes running throughout the first term which aims to introduce the major conceptual issues and theoretical problems and show how they can be applied to the reading of literature, whilst the in-depth view takes the form of eight mini seminar courses, four in the first half of term and four in the second half, from which students choose one for each half of term.The overview course will cover theoretical issues or problems such as: ‘Narrative, politics, ethics’, ‘The Spatial Turn’ and ‘History and Context’ (see timetable below).The in-depth seminar courses cover diverse areas and reflect the specific research interests of those convening the seminars. These will change from time to time and details can be found on the timetable below.Students may also opt to take a Medieval and Early Modern Pathway through the Core Course. The pathway is aimed at students registered in the MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures who wish to specialize in subjects linked to Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. The course offers tailored training to students working in this field, providing theoretical and practical tools to read, understand and work on pre-modern sources. The pathway is a flexible structure that can be adjusted to particular needs and interests offering a wide range of approaches to a variety of texts and historical contexts. This course is particularly suited to students wishing to pursue their graduate studies further and work on a PhD in Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. Students interested will have to register to the pathway before the beginning of the academic year.During the first term of study (Michaelmas term), students attend weekly lecture classes and mini-seminars designed to give them a broad insight into European literature and culture. At the end of this term, they submit one 4,500-word essay. The essay focuses on a specific theoretical framework or critical approach. One hour of individual supervision, which may be divided into two 30 minute sessions, is provided. Detailed information including suggested reading, is available by clicking here 
Mini-seminars are run each week during Michaelmas. They are run in two blocks: one set in odd weeks (1, 3, 5 and 7), and the second set in even weeks (2, 4, 6 and 8).Further details, including dates and suggested reading, is available by clicking here © 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil Key DatesMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and CulturesJump to: Michaelmas Term | Lent Term | Easter Term  
 © 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil ResourcesMPhil in Euro, LatAm, Comp Lit and Cultures© 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil Courses HomeThe Faculty runs three research MPhil courses, which run from October to June: Please click on the links on the left/above for the specific MPhils for information on course content and resources. © 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil CoursesThe MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures (ELAC) provides you with the critical and theoretical tools to enable you to undertake in-depth study of specific aspects of European literature and culture and/or Latin American and Francophone contexts. It introduces you to a broad range of critical theory concepts and includes the writing of a thesis based on original research. You take three taught courses consisting of lectures and seminars, one of which is a core course in critical theory.The course has a Medieval and Early Modern Pathway for students who wish to specialize in subjects linked to Medieval and/or Early Modern studies. There is also a Latin American Pathway: two modules run in conjunction with the MPhil in Latin American Studies, one of which is a module on Latin American Film. It is also possible to borrow modules from the MPhil in Screen Media and Cultures, and the MPhil in English Studies: Criticism and Culture, run by the Faculty of English.Generally, students receive, over the academic year, 40 hours of seminars, 16 hours of lecture classes, and 6 hours of one-to-one supervision.© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePhD ResearchHomeA PhD is a substantial piece of original scholarship for which the research and writing-up can reasonably be expected the be completed in three years. At MML there is a normal word limit of 80,000 words (including footnotes and appendices but excluding bibliography). The thesis should represent a significant contribution to learning through the discovery of new knowledge or through the connection of previously unrelated facts, or the devlopment of new theory, revision of older views or some combination of these. In writing the thesis you are expected to take account of previously published work on the subject and the thesis should be clearly and accurately written, paying due attention to English style and grammar. Candidates for the PhD in Cambridge are guided by a supervisor, though they will normally also discuss their work with a number of other experts in their field.Non-native speakers of English should ensure that their work is checked by a native speaker, preferably with some subject knowledge. Supervisors cannot be expected to correct poor English but of course may give advice on questions of English writing.PhD study at Cambridge is intellectually demanding and should be undertaken only by those who have the necessary level of attainment and motivation to pursue research or advanced study at the highest level of scholarship. In addition, graduate students in Cambridge are expected to have the capacity, and enthusiasm, for organising their own research and to work largely on their own initiative.Candidates for the PhD are guided by a supervisor and offered a programme of professional development. Details of the graduate training available can be found herePhD students are expected to begin their research at the beginning of the academic year, 1 October, although for Linguistics students it may be possible to begin in January if prior arrangement with the Department has been made. Students must normally have completed all the requirements of any previous courses before commencing their studies at Cambridge. Graduate students are generally in residence continuously throughout the year (apart possibly from short breaks taken in the periods between terms). Residing in the University, for research students, means living within a distance of 10 miles from the centre of Cambridge.PhD students might reasonably expect to see their supervisor fortnightly or at least 3 times a term. The length of a supervision may vary, depending on the stage a student is at, and on the nature of the written work, if any, to be discussed. As a rule, however, such meetings generally last between 30 and 60 minutes.© 2017 University of CambridgeDissertation preparation and submissionPhD ResearchThe dissertation must not exceed 80,000 words, including footnotes, references and appendices, but excluding bibliographies. Only under exceptional circumstances will permission be granted to exceed the limit. Should you wish to apply to exceed the word limit you must make an application via your Self-Service at least three months before submitting your dissertation with a full supporting statement from your Supervisor. You are not allowed to include the whole or the major part of your MPhil thesis within your PhD dissertation. However, you are entitled to include such parts that are connected with the argument of your PhD. You should state in a preface to your dissertation which parts, if any, have been drawn from earlier MPhil work. See Code of Practice.See the Student Registry webpage for full details regarding submission.It is a requirement within MML that dissertations must conform with the advice concerning abbreviations, quotations, footnotes, references etc published in the Style Book of the Modern Humanities Research Association (Notes for Authors and Editors). This is available online: MHRA Style Guide. You should note that one of the requirements of a PhD dissertation is that it is clearly written. Amongst other things this means that it must be written in grammatically correct, idiomatic English. If you are not a native English speaker (and even if you are!) you should pay particular attention to this and perhaps ask a non-specialist friend to read through your dissertation before submission. Your Supervisor will be concentrating on content and will not have time to correct all grammatical and stylistic mistakes. You should think about applying for examiners in plenty of time before submitting your dissertation as the process can take some time, especially if you begin the process during a vacation. Three months is usually a good lead-in time, and gives examiners time to factor reading the dissertation and holding the viva into their diaries.The application form (download in Word format) should be emailed to graduatestudies@mml.cam.ac.uk (or for Linguistics, to ljr39@cam.ac.uk). Please attach an electronic copy of your abstract (a short summary of the contents of the dissertation to inform examiners of the content) when submitting the form. The abstract should be no more than one page long.  You will also need to propose the exact title of your dissertation and the date upon which you propose to submit it. It's important that you give a realistic submission date. It can causes examiners great inconvenience if you submit your dissertation at a later date than anticipated and it may mean that completely new examining arrangements have to be made - which may result in delay in the examining process.Once the Secretary of the Degree Committee has received your application s/he will ask your Head of Department (or Deputy) to suggest suitable names for examiners. The suggestions will be made after consultation with your Supervisor who will have discussed the matter with you beforehand. The formal appointment of examiners remains the responsibility of the Degree Committee and you should not seek to initiate contact yourself. You will only be formally told who your Examiners are to be after you have submitted your dissertation.Two copies of your dissertation, three copies of a summary, and various pieces of information should be submitted to the Student Registry. Please refer to the Registry's webpages for full details.  The Registry will pass the dissertation to the Modern Languages Graduate Studies Office, from where it will be despatched to the two Examiners that the Degree Committee has appointed.You may submit either softbound or hardbound copies of your dissertation. You should bear in mind however that it is a condition for proceeding to the Degree that you submit a hard bound copy for the University Library. If you submit a soft bound copy in the first instance, you will not be asked to produce the final hard bound copy until after receiving a letter of approval for the Degree from the Secretary of the Board of Graduate Studies.You are expected to submit your dissertation by the end of the vacation following your 12th term of research. A very special case will need to be made for any deferral that takes a student into his or her 5th year of PhD work and deferrals beyond the 4th year will not normally be allowed. Students will be removed automatically from the Register of Graduate Students at the end of their 4th year. Although this does not preclude the possibility of being reinstated at a later date when the dissertation is ready for submission it does mean that the student will be deprived of his or her student status (which may have visa implications) and he or she will not be entitled to use university facilities, such as the University Library, university emailing system, and the University Card. See Code of Practice. The examiners will contact you to arrange a viva. The viva can be fairly short or may last for several hours. During the viva, examiners will discuss your work in detail. In addition, you will be expected to defend your thesis, to clarify anything which might be unclear to the examiners, and to explore other points which you may not have had space to develop. Following the viva, the examiners may indicate an outcome of the examination process, and may release corrections to you. However, you must be aware that the formal process for awarding a PhD is as follows:As the Degree Committee and the Board of Graduate Studies only meet once a month or so, and do not meet at all during the vacations, you should be prepared for some delay between the viva and receiving the final decision. If a viva is held late in the Easter term or during the summer, you need to be aware that if examiners' recommendations following the viva are not received in time for consideration by the Degree Committee at its June meeting, they will be held over for consideration in October.© 2017 University of CambridgeFieldwork FundingPhD Research MML PhD students may apply for funding to help cover the costs of fieldwork taking place during terms of 'Working Away'. Allowable claims are research-related costs that exceed those that you would ordinarily meet if staying in Cambridge e.g. travel costs; research related costs; exceptional living costs. All travel and accommodation costs should be by the most economical means.To apply, please complete the MML Fieldwork Funding Application Form, and ask your Supervisor to sign the form to show their approval, before uploading to your Leave to Work Away Application via your Self-Service Account. Please also upload a completed copy of the relevant Risk Assessment Form for Working Away.  Please also email a copy of your forms to the Graduate Administrator, Alison Bingham  There are three application rounds per year, i.e. one per term.  Deadlines dates are as follows:Decisions are made by the Graduate Studies Committee, and a gathered field system is used for each application round. The Graduate Office will aim to communicate decisions within 4 weeks of each deadline (but please note that we cannot release any funds until after your Working Away application has been approved).Each year the Faculty receives applications for funds totalling at least twice the budget allocated to us and therefore on many occasions we may only be able to offer partial funding.If you have any questions, please contact the Faculty's Graduate Administrator, Alison Bingham, on gradadmin@mml.cam.ac.uk  © 2017 University of CambridgePhD Monitoring and AssessmentPhD ResearchAll full-time PhD students in MML must attend annual progress interviews in their first three years and termly ones in their fourth year. For part-time students, the timings are slightly different but the same rules apply. The monitoring system is a Student Registry requirement, but also the AHRC requires annual monitoring and assessment of doctoral students' individual training needs. The system also enables students to solicit feedback regarding supervision and institutional support.You will find below an overview of the annual monitoring system and its requirements, along with a full information document explaining each step of the system. You will also find below a PDP form (Personal Development Plan). At the start of the academic year, the Graduate Office will email a PDP form, along with information on the monitoring process to both Supervisors and PhD Students. Your Supervisor will discuss training needs/personal development with you, and together you should agree on a plan for the coming year. Then later, towards the end of the year, your Supervisor will discuss your progress with you. A PDP should be completed every year, whether you are full-time or part-time, or whether you are on an MLitt or PhD course. You should complete your PDP and pass this to your supervisor and/or assessors together with other work required for your specific monitoring point (check the Monitoring Overview document for a list of what you will be required to provide).Please click on the links below to access the following documents: © 2017 University of CambridgePhD ResourcesPhD Research© 2017 University of CambridgeManaging Your Student StatusPhD ResearchDuring your time at MML, you may need to apply for permissions such as intermission from your studies, working away from Cambridge, extending your submission date, and so on. Most applications can be made online, via your CamSiS Self-Service account. Please refer to the Student Registry's website which provides useful information and links for Graduate Students, in particular the 'Changing Your Student Status' section.  Don't forget to discuss your plans with your Supervisor before applying.If you are applying for Leave to Work Away from Cambridge for the purpose of conducting fieldwork, you are asked to upload a 'Risk Assessment Form' to CamSiS along with your online application. Forms are available below (please choose the relevant link): MML Risk Assessment Form (for Fieldwork held outside the UK)MML Risk Assessment Form (for Fieldwork held within the UK)If you are working away, please note that you might be eligible for Fieldwork Funding. © 2017 University of CambridgeResearcher DevelopmentPhD ResearchMML Graduate Training Officer: Dr Heather Webb (Michaelmas 2017);  Prof Emma Wilson (Lent and Easter 2018)Graduate Training, or Graduate Development, includes all the opportunities available to research students to develop as highly-skilled individuals in preparation for their future career. Together with his or her research supervisor, every graduate student should discuss the particular training to suit his or her individual needs. This might include learning a new language, or to use a particular software package; it will include attendance at conferences, not only those where a research student is giving a paper but also conferences where he or she develops networking skills by participating in discussions. As personal and professional development, graduate training enables researchers to develop transferable skills which will be of benefit to them whether or not they remain in academia.Full-time PhD students must attend 10 days of training in their first year, 10 in their second and 8 in their third years. Part-time students must attend 6 days of training per year in years 1-3, and 5 days per year in years 4 and 5. Students should keep a log of their training using the Personal Development Plan.  Training events arranged by the School of Arts and Humanities and by the Language Centre will automatically appear on your Researcher Development Log.  Please see the Training/PDP Q&A document for further information.The MML Graduate Development Programme is available here.This Programme is run for the benefit of MML PhD research students. Sessions will help research students develop key skills for use in their career: this includes supervising and small group teaching, training for language teaching, writing a lecture, organising conferences, and more.The library and bibliographical resources session is compulsory for first year students. We highly recommend the Supervising and Small Group Teaching session for first year students, although some may wish to take this in their second year of study. Additional places on those courses are open to all other PhD students on a first-come first-served basis. The Graduate Office will contact students in advance of every session with further information, and ask students if they would like to sign up.A resource guide for graduate students teaching language has been developed from materials used at past workshops.In addition to the Faculty programme, the University’s Researcher Development Programme provides an extensive programme of training, and you may choose sessions from this provision to make up your total.  The schedule is available here.As mentioned above, your training each year will include not only face-to-face courses organised by the MML faculty or the University Researcher Development Programme. Public engagement activities are an excellent way of developing skills for communicating with a non-academic audience and this could involve offering a session for the Cambridge Festival of Ideas.Attendance throughout the year at a Departmental Research Seminars counts as 3 days of training (4 for French PhDs who also attend the FGRS). Organisers of departmental graduate research seminar series will get a credit of 2 days for this work. In their second or third year of the PhD, graduate students will usually have the opportunity to plan and deliver a lecture as part of their training. Training courses should be selected according to the researcher’s interest. However, training goes above and beyond such organised sessions, and a student’s yearly total or 8 or 10 days should include a balance of different types of training.Linguistics students will be contacted directly with further information on these sessions.The IMLR offers a programme in research skills and methods to its own students, to students at other institutes of the School of Advanced Study, and to graduate students (MA and research) of modern languages in universities in London and beyond.For more information, visit: http://modernlanguages.sas.ac.uk/graduate-study/research-training/igrs-programmeEach individual graduate student should attend a research seminar in the relevant department at least once a fortnight. Please check departmental research pages for details. Additionally, students may choose to attend a seminar series in their particular research area, an interdisciplinary seminar, or the rich programme of events at CRASSH, the Cambridge Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities.The Language Centre offers language training aimed specifically at graduate students.Their website can be found at: www.langcen.cam.ac.uk/graduates/The University Library provide a variety of training courses including 'Managing your Researcher Online Presence', using Zotero software, Images For Your Research: ARTstor Digital Library, and many more.Hosted by the Faculty of English, the Cambridge Medieval Palaeography Workshop is an interdisciplinary forum for informal discussion on medieval script and scribal practices within western Europe, and on the presentation, circulation and reception of texts of all kinds (Latin and vernacular) in their manuscript contexts.  Workshops are normally held in the Easter term each year.  © 2017 University of CambridgeVisitors and ErasmusHome For students wishing to come to Cambridge as part of the Erasmus Exchange Programme, please visit the dedicated page on the International Student Team website. A student visitor is defined as a student who is registered for a degree at another institution and who attends Cambridge for a short period of supervised research.As a visiting student, you will be able to conduct research under the supervision of an appointed academic.  You will be able to use the facilities in MML Graduate Centre (desk space and computer facilities), the CALL (Computer-Assisted Language Learning) facility, the Faculty and University libraries, and join in the life of the relevant Department and the Faculty. It is often possible to attend certain lectures and seminars, although it should be noted that attendance would normally require the permission of the lecturer concerned.There is a charge of £500 per term, or £2000 for a period of twelve months.If you would like to apply for Visiting Student Status for a period of 12 months or less, you should complete an application form giving a short outline of the proposed research you wish to carry out in Cambridge and return the form to the Secretary of the relevant Department.Your application will be considered by a potential supervisor and the Head of the relevant Department, and will then require further approval by the Faculty's Graduate Studies Committee.You will not normally be permitted to study for more than one year without applying for a formal qualification via the central Graduate Admissions Office.Non-native English speakers are expected to meet the University’s standard English language requirements.Applicants should provide a copy of their English test along with their application form. Tests are only valid if taken within 2 years of the requested start date at Cambridge. Please see the 'Will I have a Language Requirement?' page of the Graduate Admissions website to determine if you need to take a language test.Language waivers may, on occasion, be made at the discretion of the Head of Department. Normally waivers would only be considered for those coming to conduct their research in their native language, and particularly where the relevant supervisor is fluent in that same language. Waivers are generally not given by the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics. Further, please note that waivers are not permitted for applicants who are entering the UK under the Tier 4 or Student Visitor Route, due to Home Office requirements. Nationals of countries within the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland do not require a visa to study in the UK. All non-EEA nationals require a visa to undertake study in the UK.Full time visiting students coming for six months or less should obtain a short term study visa. Students must not enter the UK on a general visitor visa for the purpose of attending as a visiting student.For visits greater than six months, students must be sponsored by the University for a Tier 4 visa and the immigration requirements of this route would need to be met before the visit can be confirmed.If your application for visiting student status is approved, the Graduate Office will contact you regarding visa requirements, if required. In the meantime, please refer to the following webpages for information: College membership is not normally offered to Visiting Students who are coming for a duration of one year or less.  The Faculty is unable to provide accommodation. Colleges may provide accommodation or help in finding accommodation. Please note that at peak times e.g. October there may be a shortage of College accommodation. More information about finding accommodation in Cambridge can be found on the Accommodation Service webpages.© 2017 University of CambridgeThe requested URL /http:/www.mml.cam.ac.uk/dtal/postgraduates/mphil-theoretical-applied-linguistics/introductory was not found on this server.The requested URL /http:/www.mml.cam.ac.uk/dtal/postgraduates/mphil-theoretical-applied-linguistics/mphil-linguistics was not found on this server.InductionInformation for staffWe are extremely pleased to welcome you to the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages. The Faculty has been at the forefront of the field for teaching and research at the national and international level since it was first formed, some 135 years ago. We hope that, with the help of this induction, you will become fully equipped with all of the necessary knowledge and sources of information so that you can contribute to and help shape the Faculty’s future.This induction begins with a focus on you, and then broadens in scope; introducing the Faculty, the School, and the University as a whole, and then helping to familiarise you with the city of Cambridge and the events and attractions here.© 2017 University of CambridgeCambridgeInductionCambridge is a city of some 125,000 people, located in the county of Cambridgeshire in the East Anglian region of England. Less than an hour away from London (50 miles, or 80 km), Cambridge is a small but diverse and vibrant city that has something to offer everyone.The city centre is a mixture of historic and modern buildings, with quiet cobbled lanes and busy thoroughfares. There are also large, open public spaces, such as Parker's Piece, Midsummer Common and Lammas Land, many with free grazing cattle, bringing the countryside into the very heart of the city.This section introduces you to the city, and provides sources of information on local government, the local environment and the tourist attractions on offer.© 2017 University of CambridgeCambridge attractionsCambridgeThe Tourist Information Centre has lots of information on local events, attractions and ideas for days out. The centre is based in the Guildhall, a government building overlooking Market Square (entrance at Peas Hill, Cambridge, CB2 3AD).&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;!--cke_bookmark_160E--&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;> The official tourism website for the City of CambridgeVisit the Great Days out around Cambridge site for some ideas on places to see and explore within Cambridge and a little further afield. There will be a Great Days out leaflet within your Induction pack.There are also many attractions at the University. These are detailed in the 'University' section of this Induction.For more ideas, see the University's Things to See and Do page.© 2017 University of CambridgeLiving in CambridgeCambridgeThe University has an Accommodation Service which can help you find somewhere to live. With hundreds of University properties on their books, they are the first point of contact for new starters and visitors looking for somewhere to live.Before you can access the service, you will need to register with them.> Visit the Accommodation Service websiteWe recommend you consider the University properties available through the Accommodation Service. However, there is a large private rental sector in the city. The majority of properties are rented ('let'), and often managed, by a lettings agency. There are some well-established local and national agencies, with branches across the city.Almost all of these agencies have their own websites, which is the fastest way to find out about properties that are available. Many of the more established agencies post their properties on national property websites, such as Zoopla and Rightmove. It is standard practice for agencies to request a deposit of 4-6 weeks' rent paid in advance, and the first months' rent paid up front. It is the law that all deposits are kept in a tenancy deposit protection scheme (a TDP), to ensure you are not unfairly treated and your money is safe. Agencies also usually charge an administration fee and a checking-in and checking-out fee, so it is a good idea to find out how much these are in advance if you can, as practices and rates vary considerably.In England, most local governments are divided into an upper tier (county level) and lower tier (city level), both of which have different responsibilities and provide different services.The upper tier is Cambridgeshire County Council, which is responsible for:> Visit Cambridgeshire County Council's website for more informationThe lower tier is Cambridge City Council, which is responsible for:> Visit Cambridge City Council's website for more informationAll residents must pay Council Tax, which is an annual charge for the provision of the services of the County and City Councils as well as the Fire Authority and Police & Crime Commissioner (who provide policing).Council Tax is calculated based on the value of your property. If you rent a property you are still required to pay. Discounts may be applicable (for example, if there is only one person in the property). Payment is usually by means of 10 monthly installments.> Find out more about Council Tax from Cambridge City Council© 2017 University of CambridgeCambridge mapCambridgeThere are maps on all University sites, and around the city there are numerous information points at key junctions to ensure you don't get lost.You will be supplied with a map of Cambridge with your Induction pack.The University's map can be accessed at map.cam.ac.uk© 2017 University of CambridgeFacultyInductionThis section provides information on the Faculty, its structure, the building and its facilities, so you can make the most of what we have to offer.© 2017 University of CambridgeEnvironment MattersFacultyThe Faculty has a committed team of staff who promote environmentally positive actions and practices throughout the institution.For their efforts, the Faculty were awarded a Bronze award in the NUS Green Impact challenge for 2013-14 and a Silver award in 2014-15 The team hope to secure a gold award for 2015-16.​The Faculty encourage new staff to help reduce the University's impact on the environment. Further information can be found on the Green Matters page> Green MattersFurther information on the University's green activities and actions can be found at the Environment and Energy section's website.> Environment and Energy         © 2017 University of CambridgeFaculty facilitiesFacultyThe Faculty has a number of facilities and services which are available to all members of staff. Contact information for these services is available at the Contact Us page of the Faculty section.The Faculty Office, located in room 121 on the first floor, is the administrative hub of MML and represents the first point of contact for staff, students and visitors. The Faculty Office can assist with general queries, meeting room and supervision room bookings, staff cards and access, stationery needs, post and help using the photocopiers. Multifunctional Devices (MFDs), which can photocopy, scan/email (in colour) and print (in black and white, up to A3 size) are located in room 119 (first floor, two machines) and 218 (second floor, one machine). A single password is required for printing and photocopying, which is available from the Faculty Office.The Faculty has an in-house IT Support team who provide local advice and technical assistance for staff in the Raised Faculty Building. The team are based in room 137 on the first floor.The Faculty has its own well-equipped Library, which offers an enormous range of books and resources for all the languages taught within the Faculty. Its primary purpose is the provision of undergraduate materials. You are free to enter and use the library, but you will need to register your University card in order to borrow items. The Faculty Library is separate to the University Library.The Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL) Facility is part of the University's Public Workstation Facility administered centrally by the Computing Service. The aim of the CALL Facility is to integrate the use of information technology into the Faculty's teaching and learning, primarily for intensive language work, but also for literary and linguistic study, reflecting the Faculty's broad curriculum. The CALL Facility contains over 25 PCs, with space set aside for both classroom teaching and private study. The CALL is based in room 141 on the first floor.There is a dedicated office for the Year Abroad. The Year Abroad, spent in work and study overseas, is the third year of the MML Tripos course. The Year Abroad Office assists students in preparation for this year, and is based in room 118 on the first floor.See the University pages of this Induction site for details of the facilities provided by the University.© 2017 University of CambridgeFaculty historyFacultyTowards the end of the 19th century, the University of Cambridge recognsied the need to provide instruction in modern languages, as opposed to the more traditional ancient languages of Latin and Greek. In February 1879 a Special Board for Medieval and Modern Languages was established. Before the structure of a Tripos was formalised, a Pass Examination (called the Special Examination in Modern Languages) was offered from 1883. In 1884, the Medieval and Modern Languages Tripos was established, comprising papers on French and German translation, as well as choices from sections covering old Saxon, Gothic and Icelandic langauges.In June 1884 two University Lecturers were appointed (E. G. W. Braunholtz, who taught French, and Karl Breul, who taught German). They began teaching in Michaelmas 1884, at the start of the Medieval and Modern Languages Tripos. Lectures were initially open to members of the University and students from Girton and Newnham College. Braunholtz and Breul were assisted by Dr Skeat, Professor of Anglo-Saxon, who provided lectures on Anglo-Saxon; Israel Gollancz, who from 1896 lectured on English; and a number of 'recognised teachers' (including several graduates).The first Tripos examination was held in 1886, in which three men and three women obtained honours.The Tripos was significantly restructured after five years of operation, creating a more appealing course, and offered from October 1891. The scheme proved popular, attracting increasing numbers of students for the next several decades.© 2017 University of CambridgeFaculty structureFacultyThe Faculty's activities are managed and coordinated by a number of Boards and Committees.The Faculty Board is the main body which oversees the work of the whole Faculty. A range of Faculty Committees report to the Faculty Board, including the Planning and Resources Committee, the Degree Committee, the Graduate Studies Committee, the Research Strategy Committee, the Undergraduate Studies Committee and the Systems Committee.Student engagement is an important aspect of governance at the Faculty. There is a Staff Student Liaison Committee which comprises of student representatives and academic staff, and reports to the Faculty Board.More information on the scope, membership and meeting dates of the Boards and Committees in MML can be accessed from the Board and Committees section of the Faculty's site.The Faculty is supported in delivering its teaching and research aims by a team of over twenty assistant staff.The team is led by the Administrative Officer, who is supported by:The Faculty has its own library which is headed up by the Faculty Librarian. The facilities that the library can offer are covered within this Faculty section.© 2017 University of CambridgeFaculty teachingFacultyThe Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses as well as a small number of open language classes.The Undergraduate Prospectus is particularly useful for getting an overall view of the undergraduate teaching offered. This is embedded below, and is available here.© 2017 University of CambridgeSchoolInductionAt Cambridge, Faculties and Departments are organised into Schools, which are administrative groupings of related subjects. There are six Schools in the University: Arts and Humanities, Biological Sciences, Clinical Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences, Physical Sciences, and Technology.The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages is part of the School of Arts and Humanities. This is sometimes referred to as 'SAH" or 'CSAH' (for Council of the School of Arts and Humanities), or simply the School. The School has an elected supervisory Council, with representatives from all of the constituent Faculties and Departments.> The School of Arts and Humanities websiteThe departments, Faculties and centres in the School of Arts and Humanities are:Many of the Faculties in the School of Arts and Humanities are situated together on the Sidgwick Site.Information on the structure of the colleges and the organisation as a whole can be accessed from the University's About the University pages.A full list of Departments, Faculties, Schools and Colleges can be accessed at cam.ac.uk/colleges-and-departments© 2017 University of CambridgeUniversityInductionThe University of Cambridge is one of the world’s oldest and most successful Universities, with an outstanding reputation for academic achievement and research. It was ranked first in the 2011 QS World University Rankings and its graduates have won more Nobel Prizes than any other university in the world. The University employs over 9,000 staff and has more than 18,000 students. The University comprises more than 150 Departments, Faculties, Schools and other institutions, plus a central administration and 31 independent and autonomous Colleges.The University and the Colleges are linked in a complex historical relationship. The Colleges are self-governing, separate legal entities which appoint their own staff. They admit students, provide student accommodation and deliver small group teaching (supervisions). The University awards degrees and its Faculties and Departments provide lectures and seminars for students, determine the syllabi for teaching and conduct research.Information on the history, structure and organisation of the University can be found at the University's About the University pages.For those new to the University, a short guide called Cambridge and the Way it Works has also been prepared.A full list of Departments, Faculties, Schools and Colleges can be accessed at cam.ac.uk/colleges-and-departments© 2017 University of CambridgeUniversity attractionsUniversityThere are many places to visit and explore within the University of Cambridge. The University has nine museums and collections, including the Fitzwilliam Museum, Kettle's Yard and the Botanic Gardens, as well as 31 very different Colleges.Your Induction pack will include a number of leaflets highlighting some of the attractions at the University.> See the University's dedicated Museums and collections websiteThe University has produced a guide for visitors to the University, which is equally useful for new staff. This is readable below, or can be accessed at the Visiting the University pages.> See the University's Things to See and Do page© 2017 University of CambridgeUniversity facilitiesUniversityThe University offers a host of facilities for its members. The Faculty also offers a number of facilities in-house (see the Faculty facilities page).The University Library is the main library of the University. It holds over 8 million items spread across over 200 miles of shelving. All members of the University are welcome to use the University Library (the 'UL'). New staff should arrange an admissions appointment, so their library permissions are activated. You can contact the Admissions Office at the library to arrange a convenient time. After you have registered, you can begin to use the UL immediately.> Visit the University Library websiteThe University Information Service (UIS) is the central service for University-wide facilities, from email, networks and telephone systems through to centrally managed desktop services, printing and support for institutions. The in-house IT Support team provides local support and is generally the first point of contact before approaching the UIS. See the Faculty facilities pages of this Induction site for an overview of the IT Support team.> Visit the UIS websiteThe University has a range of sporting and health facilities, including the newly opened Cambridge Sports Centre in west Cambridge, and numerous clubs, teams and associations, covering rowing, golf, cycling and many more.> Visit the University Sport website© 2017 University of CambridgeYouInductionThis first section focuses on what is perhaps the most important aspect of induction – you and your role here at MML. This section also covers employee benefits, development opportunities and other matters.Soon after you arrive at Cambridge, you will meet with your supervisor or Head of Department, where you will discuss your role and induction needs in detail. You will also be invited to a tour of the Faculty in order to get to know the building and its facilities. The Faculty has a welcome drinks reception at the start of the academic year, which you will receive an invitation to.A very useful event that you should attend is the University's Welcome Event. This is a great way to learn more about the University. You need to book a place through the University's Personal and Professional Development Booking System.The next Welcome Event takes place on Wednesday 5th November, 09:00 in the Grace Howard Room, Downing College. There is also a date scheduled for May.> You can book a place for the Welcome Event hereFor newly arrived members and visitors, the University has a Newcomers and Visiting Scholars group (NVS). They organise a series of events and hold weekly meetings, designed to support anyone who is new to the University settle in and learn more about Cambridge.The latest programme of events for Easter Term 2015 is included in your Induction pack. The programme is also available here.The Newcomers and Visiting Scholars website can be accessed here© 2017 University of CambridgeYour accessYouSomething you should arrange as soon as you can is your University Card. Your card attests to your membership of the University, allowing you entry to almost all of the Colleges. It is also needed for joining the University Library and the Faculty Library.The Personnel and Projects Administrator or the Faculty Office can complete a card request form. With this, you can visit the University Card Office in person and have your picture taken and card made there and then. Alternatively you can submit an image to us via email, and we can send this to the Card Office who will produce the card and return it to us.When you are given your card this will need to be programmed for entry to to Raised Faculty Building and your own College (if you have one), so you can access these out-of-hours.> Visit the University Card Office website for more information and their locationThere is also some information on access across the University at the HR page 'Access all Areas'.© 2017 University of CambridgeYour benefitsYouThere are a wide range of benefits available to members of the University of Cambridge. These include discounts at high store shops, affordable private healthcare cover and reduced rates from a number of leisure and tourism providers.Most of the benefits accessible through the University come under the umbrella of CAMbens. This includes the online reward service CAMbens Discounts, where you can save money and get cash back on purchases at hundreds of online and in-store retailers.> Find out more about CAMbens with the dicounts guide (pdf)All newly appointed and centrally funded staff employed on appointments of two years or more can receive financial assistance with relocation costs through the Reimbursement of Relocation Expenses Scheme. This includes all grades of assistant staff on central funds and centrally funded unestablished staff. Your supervisor or Head of Department can advise you whether you qualify for the 'Reimbursement of Relocation Expenses Scheme'. The scheme falls under UK taxation legislation, so eligible staff are advised to read the rules very carefully. Visit the University's Employee Benefits pages for more information.© 2017 University of CambridgeYour developmentYouThe University is committed to enhancing your skills and developing your career. If you and/or your supervisor identify any particular training needs or opportunities, you should first consider the options available in-house. The University's Centre for Personal and Professional Development (or PPD) facilitates a range of training programmes and courses. Their website has a detailed list of courses by staff category (Academic, Research, etc.), theme (orientation, presentation, etc.) and integration with the University Training Booking System (where opportunities form all course providers are advertised). Other training providers include Equality and Diversity, the University Computing Service, Finance and more.> Click for the PPD websiteThe University Training Booking System displays all the courses currently on offer from all of the training providers. You can select from different providers, or view the entire timetable for all upcoming events. The system also records all your historic and future bookings made through the system, acting as a useful record. You can access the system using the Raven web authentication service.> University Training Booking SystemEach term, you will be sent a training Calendar from PPD. This will list all the events scheduled for the term. You will also receive a separate list of courses from the University Computing Service on a termly basis. Notices for particularly useful or popular courses will be placed on the notice boards in the Lecturers' Common Room and first floor corridor.You will be provided with a PPD training Calendar in your paper Induction pack.© 2017 University of CambridgeYour payYouSalaries are paid to all staff on the 26th of the month, unless this falls on a weekend or Bank Holiday when the payday will be brought forward to the preceding Friday. The dates of all the paydays can be accessed from the Payroll Section's website.In order to receive your first pay on time, new staff will need to complete a CHRIS/22 form. The CHRIS/22 form is available here. Internal staff transferring to their new post do not need to complete this form, unless your bank details have changed.On this, you must provide:If you have not received this form please contact the Personnel and Projects Administrator as soon as possible. If your previous employer has provided you with a P45 you should supply this to us as soon as possible. You should return the CHRIS/22 form to the Personnel and Projects Administrator, not directly to the Payroll Section, as we must complete Part 2 of the form. Staff should be aware that non completion of this form will delay payment.Staff do not automatically receive paper payslips. All staff are issued with electronic payslips that are delivered through the secure Employee Self-Service (ESS), which can be accessed through the Raven log-in system from anywhere (even away from the University network). Using the system, you can opt to receive an email notification when your payslip is ready (which is usually two to three days prior to the pay date).> An example payslip can be accessed hereESS can also be used to keep your personal details and emergency contact details up-to-date. You can log in at any time and amend these, and you are strongly advised to check the information currently there, especially if you have moved to Cambridge since being offered your position.> Click here to access ESSYour annual or hourly salary will have been stated on your offer letter. Occasionally, there are University-wide revisions to the pay scales, meaning your starting salary may be very slightly higher than that originally stated in the advertisement or offer letter. Your gross monthly pay will be precisely 1/12th of your annual salary (allowing you to easily check where you are on the pay scales). However, you can contact the Personnel and Projects Administrator to check what grade and scale point you are on, when you are due to increment up the scale, and to obtain written proof of your pay for official purposes (for example for a mortgage application).The University's pay scales are published at admin.cam.ac.uk/offices/hr/salary/ along with information on pay policies and arrangements.Academic, Academic-related and Research staff generally increment by one scale point on the anniversary of appointment, whilst Assistant staff generally increment on the 1st July, irrespective of their start date. Certain staff have specific terms relating to their pay (for example, some temporary cover posts and research fellowships have a fixed scale point, meaning annual progression does not apply). Any such deviation from the standard incremental arrangement will be detailed on your offer letter and in your contract.Certain categories of staff can apply for progression to higher salary scales (those marked with an asterisk on the 'Annual salaries' section on the Salary Scales page) or for promotion to higher grades. This may be through annual promotion or reward schemes, such as the Senior Academic Promotions scheme for Academic staff, the Contribution Rewards Scheme for Assistant and Academic-related staff, or the Research Contribution Exercise for Research staff. You will be notified in advance of the respective scheme opening if you are eligible for such a scheme.© 2017 University of CambridgeYou and your roleYouThe scope and remit of your role is defined within the Role Profile (which is more commonly referred to as a Job Description, or, internally, as the PD33).For staff in the Assistant category (clerical/secretarial) and most Academic-related staff (non-teaching), you will have a specific and often very detailed Role Profile, with areas of responsibility clearly outlined with duties listed within each area and a percentage to reflect the proportion of your time spent on that area. You will have seen the Role Profile in a slightly different format when the post was advertised, as a Further Information document. When you meet with your line manager or supervisor, you will be provided with the full Role Profile (which contains some additional information that is not available in the Further Information document).For Academic staff (sometimes referred to as ‘UTOs’, which stands for University Teaching Officers) and Research staff (sometimes called Contract research staff), you will not have a Role Description that is as detailed as that provided to non-academic staff. Instead, the University has standard Role Profiles which outline the responsibilities that all lecturers and researchers would be expected to undertake. These are listed in quite broad terms (such as ‘Teaching’, ‘Research – publications’ and ‘Research and scholarship’), with descriptions of the main duties within each area (for example ‘writing lecture material and handouts and presenting information in lectures’ or ‘develop research objectives and proposals for own or joint research’).Your line manager or supervisor will be able to provide you with your generic Role Profile. You can also obtain it from the University's Pay and Grading pages. The nature and scope of your role will be based on a combination of this broad Role Profile, the Further Particulars that were made available at the time the post was advertised, and detailed discussions that will take place with your supervisor (which may result in your duties or priorities evolving over time).© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeModern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHomeModern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePostgraduate Courses (MPhil and PhD)HomeDr Abigail Brundin (Reader in Early Modern Literature and Culture) recently made a short video for Postgraduate Search in which she introduces postgraduate studies at Cambridge. Click on the link to see the interview: An introduction to the Department of Italian.The Department offers many possibilities to study all aspects of Italian culture, history, literature, language and linguistics at both MPhil and PhD levels, and warmly welcomes informal inquiries or applications from anyone interested in pursuing postgraduate studies in Italian. At present, the Department offers teaching and research supervision in the following areas: The Department also has a number of affiliated lecturers and post-doctoral researchers working in these and other area.For information on applying, please see the Faculty website.All formal applications must be made through the central Graduate Admissions Office. Before applying, applicants are strongly encouraged to contact directly one of the members of staff working in their proposed area or, for general inquiries and for those interested in other fields not mentioned above, to contact the Postgraduate Coordinator (Dr Brundin). The Department does not necessarily expect potential applicants to have detailed plans about their proposed area of study, and is more than happy to discuss general inquiries and receive indications of interest. Increasingly, students (and funding authorities) prefer that graduate studies should begin with the MPhil which, after one year, may serve as a qualification for a further two or three years' work towards a PhD. This is the Italian Department's preferred route for those applicants wishing to study for a PhD. At present, the Department participates in three MPhil. programmes, offering Italian-specific pathways through the MPhil. in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures, the MPhil. in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics and the MPhil. in Film and Screen Studies. Applicants for an MPhil may possibly be called for a formal interview, but are in any case more than welcome to come to Cambridge, if they wish, to discuss their plans informally with a member of staff in their area. Applicants for the PhD, who already possess an MPhil, Masters Degree or equivalent, will be interviewed by members of the Department in the Michaelmas or Lent Term (October to March) of the year in which they wish to begin their graduate studies. This interview will seek to establish not only the suitability of the candidate, but the most appropriate procedure for supervision and library work. Interviews are required for all those applying for funding to the AHRC.For guidance on the costs of Graduate courses at the University of Cambridge, click here. There are several possible routes to finding funding for MPhil or PhD research in Italian at Cambridge. The Department has recently been successful in being awarded AHRC grants for both MPhil and PhD research. Details of how to apply for these and other funding routes can be found here.See also:Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeApplications and FundingPostgraduate CoursesProspective applicants should consult the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages' graduate webpages for information on entry requirements, application deadlines, fees, funding opportunities, and further information relating to graduate study in MML.Before applying, applicants are strongly encouraged to contact directly one of the members of staff working in their proposed area. Please see our staff research specialisms for further information. For general inquiries, contact the Graduate Coordinator, Professor Robert Gordon. Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. Further details are available here.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeFormer Postgraduate StudentsCurrent Postgraduate StudentsModern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeMPhil in Linguistics: Italian Pathway HomeFor students interested in studying Italian linguistics at Masters level, the Faculty currently offers a one-year postgraduate MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics with the option to pursue an Italian Pathway.To fulfil a pathway, a student must write the MPhil thesis and at least two of the essays on a topic which is clearly within the language area chosen. The choice of courses attended in Michaelmas and Lent Terms will reflect that pathway.The Italian pathway within the MPhil in Linguistics is therefore ideally suited for students wishing to gain a broad grounding in Italian linguistics and/or an in-depth introduction to specific areas of interest, as well as offering the possibility to combine the study of Italian linguistics with that of other Romance languages.Most of the following Lent Term research seminars will be available in any given year (a minimum of 2 students is required for the seminar to run):Please see the Faculty pages on the MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics for more information.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeItalianThe Italian Section offers many possibilities to study all aspects of Italian culture, history, literature, language and linguistics at both MPhil and PhD levels, and warmly welcomes informal inquiries or applications from anyone interested in pursuing postgraduate studies in Italian. Dr Abigail Brundin (Reader in Early Modern Literature and Culture) recently made a short video for Postgraduate Search in which she introduces postgraduate studies at Cambridge. Please click on the image below to see the interview.  At present, the Department offers teaching and research supervision in the following areas: The Department also has a number of affiliated lecturers and post-doctoral researchers working in these and other area.For information on applying, please see the Faculty website.All formal applications must be made through the central Graduate Admissions Office. Before applying, applicants are strongly encouraged to contact directly one of the members of staff working in their proposed area or, for general inquiries and for those interested in other fields not mentioned above, to contact the Postgraduate Coordinator (Professor Robert Gordon). The Italian Section does not necessarily expect potential applicants to have detailed plans about their proposed area of study, and is more than happy to discuss general inquiries and receive indications of interest. Increasingly, students (and funding authorities) prefer that graduate studies should begin with the MPhil which, after one year, may serve as a qualification for a further two or three years' work towards a PhD. This is the Italian Department's preferred route for those applicants wishing to study for a PhD. At present, the Department participates in three MPhil. programmes, offering Italian-specific pathways through the MPhil. in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures, the MPhil. in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics and the MPhil. in Film and Screen Studies. Applicants for an MPhil may possibly be called for a formal interview, but are in any case more than welcome to come to Cambridge, if they wish, to discuss their plans informally with a member of staff in their area. Applicants for the PhD, who already possess an MPhil, Masters Degree or equivalent, will be interviewed by members of the Department in the Michaelmas or Lent Term (October to March) of the year in which they wish to begin their graduate studies. This interview will seek to establish not only the suitability of the candidate, but the most appropriate procedure for supervision and library work. Interviews are required for all those applying for funding to the AHRC.For guidance on the costs of Graduate courses at the University of Cambridge, click here. There are several possible routes to finding funding for MPhil or PhD research in Italian at Cambridge. The Department has recently been successful in being awarded AHRC grants for both MPhil and PhD research. Details of how to apply for these and other funding routes can be found here.See also:Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePhD and MPhil CoursesPostgraduate CoursesThe Italian Section has a thriving international community of postgraduate students working towards the PhD. It has an excellent track record in securing funding for students, who have gone on to exciting careers within and beyond academia. The Italian Section welcomes a broad, interdisciplinary range of research at PhD level under the general heading of Italian Studies, across all periods from medieval to modern. The research interests of academic staff can be found here. Prospective applicants are strongly encouraged to contact directly a potential supervisor to discuss their proposed research application.Potential applicants may also like to consult the information on current PhD students.Information on applications can be found on the Faculty pages. Information on part-time study may also be of interest.For guidance on the costs of Graduate courses at the University of Cambridge, click here. There are several possible routes to finding funding for PhD research in Italian at Cambridge. The Department has recently been successful in being awarded AHRC grants for both MPhil and PhD research. Details of how to apply for these and other funding routes can be found here.​ For more general information about funding for the PhD, see the central University funding pages.* Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD). For further information click hereThe Italian Section very much welcomes graduate students for MPhil (Masters) programmes.The Italian Section participates in all three of the MML Faculty's MPhil courses, and Italian pathways are taught by members of the Department;. Please follow one of the links below for information relevant to the course you wish to follow.Information on applications can be found on the Faculty pages. Information on part-time study may also be of interest.For guidance on the costs of Graduate courses at the University of Cambridge, click here. There are several possible routes to finding funding for Mphil research in Italian at Cambridge. The Department has recently been successful in being awarded AHRC grants for both MPhil and PhD research. Details of how to apply for these and other funding routes can be found here.​ For more general information about funding for MPhil courses, see the central University funding pages.* Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD). For further information click hereAll formal applications must be made through the central Graduate Admissions Office. Before applying, applicants are strongly encouraged to contact directly one of the members of staff working in their proposed area or, for other inquiries to contact the Graduate Coordinator (Professor Robert Gordon). The Italian Section does not necessarily expect potential applicants for the MPhil to have detailed plans about their proposed area of study, and is more than happy to discuss general inquiries and receive indications of interest. Students (and funding authorities) prefer that graduate studies should begin with the MPhil which, after one year, may serve as a qualification for a further two or three years' work towards a PhD. This is the Italian Section's preferred route for those applicants wishing to study for a PhD.Please see information on current research in the Italian Section and our staff research specialist areas.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeTestimonialsHomeDoing a PhD in Italian is a rewarding experience. At Cambridge I have found a dynamic and vibrant environment, with an excellent reputation for its research quality and impact. The academic staff offer exceptional teaching and expertise in every area of Italian literature and culture, from the Middle Ages to the Present. There is also a close-knit community of postgraduates keen on supporting each other and developing new ideas. One of the things that I like most is the constant intellectual exchange between doctoral students and senior academics. And this is vital to research excellence and innovation.Nicolò Morelli (July 2017) The Italian department is an inspiring, supportive and lively place in which to do a PhD. The quality of the supervision and the range of opportunities for research and development are outstanding - I couldn’t ask for a better faculty or university in which to study.Helena Phillips-Robins (March 2015)Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeItalianSee also the links below for further useful information:Please click here to view the Faculty's webpage for prospective Undergraduate students for information on Open Days, course costs, what it's like at Cambridge and much more!Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeIndependent study in ItalyHomeIt is clearly important to spend as much time as possible in Italy during your first two years of study. Unfortunately the Department has no travel grants to offer, but Colleges are usually ready to provide some assistance. Your College Tutor or Director of Studies will be able to give advice on this. Information about obtaining jobs or vocational placements in Italy is available from the Central Bureau for International Education and Training, 10 Spring Gardens, London SW1A 2BN, tel: (020) 7389-4004. The Bureau has its own website at http://www.centralbureau.org.uk.Final-year students returning from their year abroad in Italy often have useful suggestions and contacts, and the Department will organise a social evening to encourage the informal exchange of information. If you are thinking of following a vacation course in language or culture in Italy, you will find all the brochures received by the Department on the wall by the noticeboard on the 2nd floor North landing of the Raised Faculty Building. When making your choice, you should consider carefully which part of Italy might suit you best. Florence, Rome, and Venice offer obvious attractions (and a very wide range of courses), but it may be harder to meet Italians there than in other less popular Italian cities such as Bologna, Verona, Padua, Siena, or Pisa. The Italian Department has an affiliation with the British Institute in Florence, which offers high-quality language and cultural courses throughout the year and organises a tailor-made course for Cambridge Part IA and IB students in the Easter vacation (at preferential rates). For details consult Dr Natali in the Lent term.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeOptional DissertationUndergraduate CoursesAt Part II of the MML Tripos, students have the option for one of their scheduled papers to be examined by dissertation rather than the 3 hour written exam. All of the scheduled papers available at MML Part II Italian can be examined in this manner.Students apply to submit a dissertation by providing the Faculty Office with a proposed title for their dissertation which is then forwarded to the relevant Department for approval. All students must first find a supervisor and agree a title with them, and then seek approval from their Director of Studies. Students will then submit their proposed titles via an online survey on the MML Part II Moodle site. The Faculty will contact the relevant DoS and supervisor to confirm their approval. The Faculty will inform each student of its approval or otherwise via email. An Optional Dissertation Handbook is available (see link below). Students should download and read this handbook carefully, paying particular attention to the information on overlap. The important points relating to overlap are listed below:Optional Dissertation Guidelines Tripos 2017What? When? Submission of proposed title TBC Submission of change to title TBC Submission of Optional Dissertation TBCA Dissertation Toolkit is available to students by clicking here.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeItalian in Year 1HomeThe majority of students who study Italian at Cambridge begin their study of the language when they arrive at University, and the Department offers you an integrated, intensive and highly successful course to prepare you for the Part IA examinations, taken in May-June. At the end of the first year of study, you will have reached A-level standard in your language work. In addition, in your work for the 'Texts and Contexts' paper, you will have encountered - initially with the aid of translations - selections from key works of Italian literature, culture and linguistics from the fourteenth century to the present day. For further details of this course, see the page on Paper ITA3.Please find below information about what to do to best prepare for your first year in Cambridge as an ab-initio (i.e. starting from scratch) student of Italian. Below is a list of the ab-initio language course textbooks and of suggested reading that can be of interest and help. In order to facilitate your contact with the Italian language you are strongly advised to familiarize yourself with the basic rules of sounds, spelling, noun and verb structure.The main preparation you can do for this course is on Language:The ab-initio language course textbooks are:You should purchase both of these books before you come up to Cambridge, together with a good bilingual dictionary (recommendations below).If you buy these from  The Italian Bookshop you are entitled to a discount.Also, please make sure you work with the basic communicative material Just in Time Essentials available on the Language Centre LC Online resources (Please note this is protected access material, so you will need your University of Cambridge Raven pass activated):http://lconline.langcen.cam.ac.ukBilingual dictionaries (suitable for your first year)If you have the opportunity, do go to Italy, either to attend a language course, to work, or just to get the experience of the language and culture first hand. The Department has some information about language courses in Italy, and particularly about the British Institute of Florence, with whom we have links: British Institute of Florence.A feature of our ab initio course is that the study of the Italian language is combined from the outset with the study of Italian culture of all periods and of linguistics. Details of this part of the course and suggestions for preparatory work are given on the page Paper ITA3. The following tests of your progress will take place at the beginning of June: Once you have started to master the basics of Italian grammar you will find the following additional reading lists and links to online resources helpful. Do not attempt any of this before you come up to Cambridge if you are a complete beginner!During your study of Italian at Cambridge you will rely on the use of good language dictionaries. Below is a list of recommended titles:The following brief outline of the structure of the Part IA course and examinations is intended to give you some idea what to expect in your first year at Cambridge.In the first eight weeks most of the main points of grammar are covered, including a study of the subjunctive. Contemporaneously, you will be looking at a modern novel by an Italian writer and you will also begin lectures and literature supervisions for the Texts and Contexts paper (Introduction to Italian:3). Over the Christmas vacation you will be asked to revise the term's work in preparation for a progress test to be held in January.The study of grammar is continued and completed by the end of term. Vocabulary is developed through formal translation both from and into Italian. Alongside the language course, you will continue, via lectures and supervisions to study extracts from works by Dante, Giotto, Machiavelli, Levi and Rossellini (dir.). Again you must make time available over the vacation to consolidate the term's work. Many of our students attend a specially-tailored course at the British Institute of Florence during the Easter vacation. This term will be mainly devoted to revision work in preparation for the examination in Part 1A of the Tripos.In addition to the classes you will have weekly/fortnightly supervisions in small groups (usually of three students), which will ensure that you receive personal help with any problems you may have with regard to pronunciation, grammar or the study of literature. In conclusion, it has to be emphasised that the foundation course is fast and demanding. Steady work is necessary throughout the year. But students who begin Italian at Cambridge regularly go on to achieve excellent results in Tripos. And if you plan your work carefully, take full advantage of the personalised teaching in the supervisions, and, above all, make a determined effort to revise and assimilate the grammar during vacations, you are likely to be just as successful as the majority of your predecessors.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeItalian in Year 1HomeThe Part IA Post A-Level course at Cambridge is designed to develop your existing knowledge and skills to a high level of proficiency. The language teaching is complemented by a further course (Texts and Contexts), which provides the opportunity to study some of the finest works in Italian literary culture, along with some aspects of Italian linguistics. You can find details of this course on this page: Paper It 1: Texts and Contexts.Each week the Department offers two hours of language teaching for the written language papers. The Use of Italian class focuses on developing the fluency, accuracy, and scope of your written Italian through a wide range of linguistic exercises. The Translation/ Commentary class, based on the exercises of translation from Italian into English and linguistic/stylistic commentary, aims to enhance your understanding of Italian and your appreciation of the expressive possibilities of the language. Both these classes are taught in groups of around 8 to 10 students. Oral supervisions are held weekly in smaller groups of 2 to 4 students. Students are encouraged to supplement this formal teaching by independent study, for which the Faculty offers a variety of resources, including the Language Centre, the Computer-Assisted Language Learning Facility, and TV and Video viewing facilities. You will also find links to some helpful online resources further down this page. Teaching for the 'Texts and Contexts' paper will include lectures and seminars on each of the set texts, as well as weekly supervisions in small groups (2-3 students). In addition, the IA Translation/Commentary class will be directed in part to preparation for the commentary element of this paper.During the course of your first year at Cambridge, you will be guided to develop reading, writing, translation and speaking skills in Italian. You will also study the more complex grammatical structures of the language, having already acquired a sound basic knowledge of it with your A-level course. It is therefore very important that you spend some time revising and updating your language skills before coming to Cambridge, in order to be able to make the most of the language courses that will see you working alongside Part IB ex-option A students (ex-beginners).Although there is no set language course book for Part IA option B students, it is highly advisable that you get hold of the following reference grammar book:Below is a list of suggested reading that you might find of interest and helpful in your work of revision. All titles recommended in the list below are available from The Italian Bookshop. Students of the Department of Italian are entitled to a discount:If you have the opportunity, do go to Italy, either to attend a language course, to work, or just to referesh your experience of the language and culture first hand. The Department has some information about language courses in Italy, and particularly about the British Institute of Florence, with whom we have links: British Institute of Florence.During your study of Italian at Cambridge you will rely on the use of good language dictionaries. Below is a list of recommended titles:The most helpful preparation for the literature lies in independent reading of the set texts, with close attention to linguistic detail. For a first reading of Dante it is best to use a facing-page translation in prose or verse. Please see suggestions for reading on the page of Paper It. 1. At the end of their first year, students will take three examination papers. Two of these are language papers (ITB1 and ITB2), and the third is a literature paper (IT1)Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeItalian in Year 2HomeThe Part IB in MML is a recognised independent qualification in the outside world but it is also designed specifically to prepare you for advanced study in Part II of our Tripos. You will continue to improve your command of the language but you will spend proportionally more time and effort studying topics in Italian literature, art, culture, history, thought or philology. You will still be divided into two groups, with differing examination requirements, depending on whether you began Italian at Cambridge (taking Option A in your first year), or whether you arrived with an A-level in Italian (taking Option B in your first year); so in what follows please note the regulations and courses which concern you.You will, however, find that you are fully integrated with members of the other group in the teaching of the scheduled papers and in preparation for the Year Abroad (below); and by the time you take Part II all differences will have disappeared.If you were an ab initio student in your first year, you will prepare yourself for the following examinations at the end of your second year:N.B. It is worth spelling out that is possible to take all three scheduled papers in Italian (although your Director of Studies will probably advise against this).If you were a post A-level student in your first year, you will prepare yourself for the following examinations at the end of your second year.N.B. It is worth spelling out that is possible to take all three scheduled papers in Italian (although your Director of Studies will probably advise against this).For a list of Italian papers available to students taking Part IB, please see this page.You must spend your third year abroad, and - other things being equal - you could hardly do better than immerse yourself in the language and culture of Italy for eight months by studying at a university there, teaching as a Language Assistant in a school, or gaining experience in an office. This is the time when your two years of 'investment' will pay their 'dividends' handsomely.In recent years between twenty and twenty-five of your predecessors chose Italy every year and the Department will be drawing on their experiences to help you find the right occupation in the right place, and to prepare you in every way it can. In the Michaelmas term there will be an informal gathering for all second-years where you will have the chance to put questions, over a glass of wine, to the current fourth-years who spent last year in Italy. In the Michaelmas Term there will be four classes, given by Dr Alessandra Lombardi, dealing in a down to earth way with such things as the Italian Educational System (particularly the structure of university courses), job applications, and coping with the hassles of daily life.Further details will be given at the beginning of the Lent term. See also the separate section devoted to the Year Abroad - Departmental pages or Year Abroad - Faculty pages.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePart II (Year 4)HomePart II is the first and last examination in which you will be examined by a body of examiners representing the Faculty as a whole, so it will be as well to begin by recapitulating some of the regulations that affect you as a student of MML, rather than as a student of Italian. Part II is made up of seven elements (two of which will have been disposed of by the time you start systematic work in your final year):Regulations concerning the Year Abroad Project are available on the web or in a booklet from the Faculty Office. The submission date is in mid-October of your final year. As a guide to what is expected, copies of past dissertations are available for consultation in the MML Library.You may take the oral examination in any of the languages recognised by the Faculty, but bear in mind that one of your two written language papers must be in the same language as the oral. In practice, of course, it is expected that you will take the oral examination in the language of the country where you spent the Year Abroad. You will have to indicate your choice of language for the oral before leaving for the year abroad. 
The examination itself will consist of a twenty-minute discussion between you and the examiners on a topic chosen from a list published in the Reporter. All the topics are related to the Schedule II papers available to you in Part II. Click here for the list of prescribed topics.Like the Oral, the written language examinations (Translation/Composition and Essay) may be done in any language taught in the Faculty with the restriction that one of the written language papers must be in the language in which you do the Oral examination. It is possible to do the Translation/Composition in one language and the Essay in another, but it is usually advisable to do both papers in one language. (It is always advisable to take at least one scheduled paper in the same language as your Essay paper.)More information about Part II language work in Italian is available.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeTeaching arrangementsHomeThe Italian language is taught at Cambridge through a mixture of language classes and small-group teaching (supervisions). The literary and cultural components of the course are taught through lectures, seminars, and supervisions. While language classes and lectures are organised by the Department, supervisions are nominally the responsibility of the Colleges, and will be arranged and monitored by the Director of Studies in Modern Languages in your college. However, the Italian Department takes a pro-active role in arranging supervisions (with the consent of Directors of Studies), and generally does so in meetings held at the beginning of the academic year.The supervision system is employed both for language teaching (especially oral work and essay writing) and for the so-called scheduled (i.e. non-language) papers. It is a crucial component of Cambridge teaching and hence it is very important that new students should make themselves familiar with how the system works. The Faculty guidelines on supervision are reproduced later on in this handbook and should explain everything you need to know; please read them carefully before beginning your course. Details of lectures can be found in the online timetable, and a copy of the Italian timetable is posted on the Italian noticeboard. Your College Director of Studies should be your first port of call on all academic matters. But you are welcome to consult the members of the Italian Department responsible for particular areas of the syllabus:Questions concerning the organisation of language classes and supervisions, or student progress in language work, should be addressed to Dr Domenici.Questions concerning any aspect of the teaching for these papers should be addressed to the following: Questions concerning the following courses should be addressed to: If your enquiries do not concern individual areas of the syllabus but relate to the overall balance of your studies or to year-specific experiences such as the dissertation and year abroad, you may wish to consult the members of the Department who teach the various papers. The name of the paper coordinator appears on each 'Paper' page. For ALL language-related matters please consult Dr Domenici.The Italian Department welcomes feedback from students, which plays an important role in our decisions about course structure and organisation. See the Student feedback and representation section.Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeItalian in the Year AbroadHomeItaly proves (almost invariably) to be a particularly happy destination on the year abroad. It is also noticeable that those especially who have begun Italian at Cambridge achieve fullest fluency and the fullest benefit from their course here by choosing to spend their year abroad in Italy. The Year Abroad is a Faculty requirement, and there is a Faculty Year Abroad Office in the Raised Faculty Building (tel: 335008; e-mail: mml-year-abroad@lists.cam.ac.uk), and it is the Year Abroad Office you should ask for leaflets and detailed up-to-date information, 'visiting' the office either in person or on the web. Besides offering general advice and help, the Year Abroad Office disburses University money, organises a briefing day for language assistants and passes on some information about jobs. If you have been selected for an Erasmus study period or work placement you are eligible to apply for a place on an Erasmus intensive language course. The courses last between two and six weeks as preparation for an Erasmus year. Further details can be found here.N.B. You are encouraged to check the Year Abroad page for a fuller explanation of the Year Abroad and the compulsory and optional Dissertations as well as Translation projects.The year abroad is an integral part of the Modern Languages course at Cambridge, and one component of the Part II course is a piece of assessed work to be completed during that year and submitted at the beginning of the Michaelmas term of your final year. This work may take the form either of a dissertation or a translation project. Although this is not compulsory, it will normally relate to the culture of the country in which you have chosen to spend your year abroad.This is a study of a particular aspect of Italian literature, history, language, or culture. It should be an original piece of work (i.e. based on your own research and thinking), presented to a finished standard, and between 7000 and 8000 words long. To give you an idea of what is required, examples of dissertations presented in previous years will be available for consultation in the MML Library from this year. A selection of dissertation topics chosen by students in Italian over the past few years is given below as an appendix.This consists of a translation into English of a passage or series of passages from an Italian text or texts, along with a short introduction, giving details of the text chosen and discussing the principles and strategies adopted in the translation. The text/s chosen for translation may be literary or non-literary and may date from any period of Italian culture. They may be works with a rich existing translation history or recently-published texts which have never been translated. The normal word-length for the extracts chosen will be c. 2000-3000 words, although in the case of particularly difficult texts, shorter extracts will be acceptable. The whole project should be between 6000 and 7000 words long.You should begin thinking about your year abroad work from around the end of the Lent Term of your second year. If you are intending to offer a dissertation in Italian you should begin discussing your plans by the beginning of the Easter term with your supervisors or with the member of the Italian Department specialising in the area in which you are interested in working. If you are interested in the translation project, you should contact Dr Ledgeway. Your College Director of Studies will also be able to offer guidance, and Faculty and Departmental meetings relating to year abroad work will be held at the beginning of the Easter Term.If you are planning to offer a dissertation as your year abroad work, you will be expected to submit a form to the Faculty by the end of the teaching period of the Easter Term (Week 4), indicating the topic you have chosen. This must be signed by your Director of Studies and your dissertation supervisor, with whom you will already have discussed your plans. If you are planning to submit a translation project, all that is required at this point is an indication of your decision and the name of a supervisor for the project. Details of the text/s chosen for translation are not required until the December of your year abroad.As you will note from the above, it is envisaged that you will establish contact with your dissertation/translation project supervisor in the Easter term of your second year. This is vitally important, in fact, especially if you are intending to offer a dissertation. While it will be possible to have contact with your supervisor during your year abroad — the equivalent of four hour's supervision is permitted, whether conducted in person or 'virtually', by post or e-mail — it obviously makes sense to take advantage of the final term of your second year in Cambridge to ask your supervisor for bibliographical guidance and to run your initial ideas for your argument past him or her, so that you have a fairly clear idea of the direction you want to pursue by the time you leave for your year abroad.In general, when planning your work for your dissertation, you should bear in mind that the deadline for submission for year abroad work is the beginning of the Michaelmas Term of your final year, and that you cannot expect supervisors to be available to read your work over the long vacation, as this is a period they will be devoting to their own research. You should aim ideally, therefore, to have a first draft of your dissertation ready to send to your supervisor for comment by around Christmas of your year abroad, and a more finished draft by around Easter, or May/June at the latest. Supervisors are not permitted to read or comment on the final version of your dissertation.Naturally enough, the Department will be hoping that you choose Italy for your Year Abroad and an Italian subject for your Dissertation or Translation Project; and it will do its best to ensure that the whole experience is as enjoyable and rewarding as possible if you do make the wise choice.There is a Departmental Year Abroad Officer in the person of Dr Natali who will be glad to meet you by arrangement at any time in the year. He will give you advice about all aspects of living, studying and working in Italy during your third year and he will put all his contacts at your disposal. The Department will organise a social evening in the fifth or sixth week of the Michaelmas term (details will be circulated by e-mail) in which Dr Natali will speak very briefly about spending the Year Abroad in Italy before introducing some of the current fourth-years and postgraduates who will share their recent experiences with you. There will be plenty of time to put questions to the speakers and to talk informally with them and other members of the Department.From time to time, the Department is able to make other arrangements in Italy, for example, under Erasmus agreements with a number of Italian universtities, through personal contacts, particularly in Rome, or through private agreements between individual colleges in Cambridge and Pisa or Pavia. Sometimes a student who has found good employment, or good accommodation, is asked to recommend a successor. Ask Dr Natali or Dr Ledgeway about what may be on offer in the current year.
 If you are thinking of following a course (a corso singolo) at an Italian university however vague your intention may be you will have to submit three passport photos, each signed on the front a photocopy of your passport to the Year Abroad Office by the beginning of the 7th week of Lent term so that she can forward them together with a letter of confirmation of your studies issued by the Department to the Italian Consulate General for authentication. A detailed information letter will be e-mailed to you closer to the time. This is an essential preliminary which saves an immense amount of time and nervous energy. You are encouraged to equip yourself with the above-mentioned authenticated documents even you are not initially thinking of following a course at an Italian University during your Year Abroad there, just in case you change your mind at a later stage.At the beginning of the Easter term you will go to the Year Abroad Office to collect the documents and a standardised application form which you will fill out and send to the university of your choice (together with the authenticated ocuments).Modern Greek Alumni Lunch23 September 2017MODERN GREEK ALUMNI LUNCH Saturday 23rd September 2017 As promised, we have arranged another reunion event for all former students of Modern Greek. It will centre around an Alumni Lunch and will take place at Selwyn College on Saturday 23rd September 2017. After lunch there will be short talks given by two of our Alumni on...Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD)20 September 2017Sykes Postgraduate Research Studentships in Italian (Masters and PhD) Sykes postgraduate research studentships in Italian are available to outstanding candidates applying for courses starting in the academic year 2018/19. As in previous years, a number of studentships will be available at both Masters (MPhil) and PhD level...
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeThe MPhil in Theoretical and Applied LinguisticsPostgraduate study in DTALThe course integrates study of linguistic theory, broadly understood, and applied linguistics, in a single programme. It provides great variety and flexibility of content, with subject-specific training and the opportunity for diverse intellectual interactions. These can occur across the wide range of research specialisms represented in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (TAL) and beyond - especially elsewhere in the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages (MML). Thus, students can explore theoretical and descriptive linguistics (e.g. the syntactic organization, or sound structure and phonetics, of different languages, or the principles that govern the historical development of languages); they can study how linguistics and phonetics can be applied to areas such as language acquisition, language processing, data mining of language corpora, or forensics; and they can choose to look at linguistics from the point of view of a specific language or language family (e.g. Italian linguistics, Germanic linguistics, etc.). Those who wish to focus their study in a particular language area can select courses that constitute a 'Pathway' in that area, such as Celtic Linguistics or English Linguistics. Most students will pursue the MPhil through the combined route, involving assessed essays as well as a thesis, but some may wish to be considered for the thesis-only route.The combined route is intended for students who wish to extend and deepen their existing knowledge of the language sciences and their application. It often serves as a bridge between undergraduate study and doctoral research, but is also suitable as a self-contained one-year course of study. The structure of the combined route aims to promote breadth of knowledge in linguistics and depth in selected areas.The thesis-only route is for students whose knowledge of linguistics is already substantial, and who already know the area they wish to research for their thesis. To be eligible for consideration for the thesis-only route to the MPhil, a student will need (a) a broad foundation in linguistics, with depth in at least some subfields, and (b) a clear idea of the area in which the thesis will be written. Students taking this route will follow some elements of the MPhil programme as described below under ‘Course structure and examination’, but formal assessment is by a 30,000 word thesis alone submitted in June. Progress will be monitored through the year by work submitted according to a schedule specified by TAL. Applications for the MPhil course (either route) are welcomed from those who have or expect to obtain a good undergraduate degree (a first, or at least a high 2.1, in the UK system, or the equivalent elsewhere). Many students move straight into the MPhil after their first degree, but others come to it after a number of years away from formal study, sometimes in teaching posts related to languages, but also in other careers. Students taking the MPhil are expected have spent some time studying linguistics or related subjects at undergraduate level; but, occasionally, exceptions may be considered. Non-native English speakers must have passed an English Language Proficiency test at the required level. The following examinations with minimum scores are accepted: IELTS 7.5 (min 7 in each unit), TOEFL internet based test 110 (min 25 for each section - Listening, Writing, Reading and Speaking). No other English language examinations are accepted.Candidates are advised to apply in well advance of the funding deadlines listed on the Graduate Office 'Applying to MML' page. You will have to submit a sample of writing in English of approximately 3,000 words.The MPhil programme (combined route) is structured progressively to form a bridge between undergraduate study and possible further research. Its balance changes through the year so that in the first two months (Michaelmas Term - October to December) there is instruction through lectures, whilst by the last three months students are carrying out independent research full-time.All students are required to follow a course in 'Research Methods' and a statistics course to acquire skills needed for research and 'transferable' skills. Beyond that, each student will follow his or her own 'Study Plan', which allows the individual interests, needs, and strengths of the student to be met. At the start of the course the student, with advice if needed from the Director of the MPhil and subject specialists, draws up a Study Plan for the Michaelmas and Lent Terms (October to March) which is approved by the Department. This will include the selection of a minimum of four introductory taught courses to be followed in Michaelmas, and participation in a minimum of two research seminars in Lent Term. Usually the Lent Term seminars chosen build on courses which have been followed in Michaelmas.Assessment essays written in Michaelmas and over the Christmas vacation will be based on the Michaelmas taught courses. One of the Lent research seminars will normally relate to the thesis, and the other is assessed by an oral presentation (which provides an opportunity to develop communication skills). By default, the Course Director will initially act as supervisor, but once a thesis topic has been chosen in Lent Term, a subject specialist will be appointed. From Easter until June, students can concentrate full time on the thesis.The course structure allows great flexibility in combining areas and approaches. It provides for tailored combinations of work in any of the areas of theoretical, applied, and descriptive linguistics, ranging for instance from formal semantics to experimental phonetics and phonology, from language acquisition to computational linguistics, and from Welsh syntax to the history of linguistics in France. A piece of work may have as its focus the development of an argument in linguistic theory, the description of some aspect of a language or its use, the psycholinguistic testing of alternative linguistic analyses, the application of linguistic theory to the history of a language or languages, the acoustic description of sound systems, and so on. The various pieces of work may relate to any language or combination of languages subject to adequate advice and facilities being available for the topic in question. Some students may wish to specialise and opt for a 'Pathway'relating to a particular language or language family.The thesis demands independent study under the guidance of the supervisor and will involve a substantial piece of original research. A proposed title and summary for the 20,000 word thesis, formulated in discussion with the supervisor, must be submitted in mid-February, and this will be subject to approval by the Department of Linguistics, the supervisor, and the Faculty's Degree Committee. Because seminars finish at the end of Lent term, students can then devote themselves full time to research for the thesis during the Easter vacation and the Easter Term (April to June). The thesis is submitted on the seventh Thursday of Easter Full Term, and about two to three weeks later there may be an oral examination on the thesis at the discretion of the examiners.Applicants may find it useful to look at the staff research interests, and at those of others in the Faculty with interests in linguistics, to find out more about potential supervisors in their fields of interest.Most of the following Lent Term research seminars will be available in any given year (a minimum of 2 students is required for the seminar to run):The thesis will normally be based on one of these seminars. In addition students will give an oral presentation on the topic of a second seminar at the end of Lent Term. The presentation should aim at the general audience rather than subject specialists. The presentation will be assessed on the content by the subject specialist and on presentation by two other members of the Faculty.The following language-specific pathways will normally be available:To fulfil a pathway, a student must write the MPhil thesis and at least two of the essays on a topic which is clearly within the language area chosen. The choice of courses attended in Michaelmas and Lent Terms will reflect that pathway. Following a pathway in 'language X' will allow the student to opt, if he or she wishes, for the informal designation of the degree as 'MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (X)', where 'X' might be 'Slavonic' or 'French'). (Formally, however, the University merely awards the degree of MPhil.)The scheme of examination for the one-year course of study in Linguistics for the degree of Master of Philosophy shall consist of:(a) a thesis not exceeding 20,000 words in length, including footnotes, but excluding tables, appendices, and bibliography, on a subject approved by the Degree Committee for the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages;(b) four essays of which three shall be no more than 2,000 words in length, and one shall be no more than 4,000 words in length, each including footnotes, but excluding tables, appendices, and bibliography, on subjects either approved or prescribed by the Degree Committee;(c) an oral presentation on the topic of the second seminar in Lent Term.The examination shall include an oral examination on the thesis and on the general field of knowledge in which it falls, and, at the discretion of the Examiners, on the essays submitted by the candidate; save that the Examiners may, at their discretion, waive the requirement for an oral examination. The scheme of examination for the one-year course of study in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics for the degree of Master of Philosophy shall consist of:a thesis of not more than 30,000 words in length, including footnotes, but excluding tables, appendices, and bibliography, on a topic approved by the Degree Committee not later than the end of the Full Michaelmas Term preceding the examination.The examination shall include an oral examination on the thesis and on the general field of knowledge within which it falls. The thesis shall provide evidence to satisfy the Examiners that the candidate can design and carry out investigations, assess and interpret the results obtained, and place the work in the wider perspective of the subject.© 2017 University of CambridgeVisit UsUndergraduates  The best time to visit the Cambridge Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages is on one of our Open Days. The Faculty holds an Open Day annually in March and also participates in the summer Cambridge Open Days. We invite you to come and meet us on one of these occasions. The Faculty and its Library will be open for you to have a look around, and there will be lecturers and current students available on the information stand all day to answer your questions. We also put on sample lectures and a course information presentation.For more information and to book places on the open days, please visit our Open Days page.You can also visit College Open Days, some of which run MML/Linguistics subject-sessions.You can also attend our subject-specific Masterclasses, which provide you with a taste of undergraduate teaching as well as an opportunity to learn more about our degree course and admissions.  For more information on these taster days, please visit the Subject Masterclasses page.Outside open days, please contact us for advice on how and when visits might be arranged, and for further information on our various outreach activities. Further Information and EnquiriesFaculty of Modern & Medieval Languages
Raised Faculty Building
University of Cambridge
Sidgwick Avenue
Cambridge
CB3 9DAHow to find us+44 (0) 1223 335000For general enquires: facultyoffice@mml.cam.ac.ukFor more specific questions about the courses and our work with schools: schools-liaison [at] mml.cam.ac.uk© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeHomeWelcome to all prospective students! "Know languages, know countries, know people" Alexander Solzhenitsyn​Top of the league table for Modern Languages and Linguistics in the University Guide 2017, published by The Guardian newspaper. Thinking about studying Linguistics or Modern Languages?  These are rich, intellectually rewarding fields, through which your degree course may chart one of many diverse routes, all fostering skills that are highly sought after by top employers in many fields. We offer undergraduate degree courses in Modern and Medieval Languages (MML), Linguistics, and, jointly with the Faculty of History, in History and Modern Languages.A Modern Languages degree lets you study the world—and lets you get especially close to the cultures and peoples of other places: through the knowledge of their languages. As well as developing your language skills to a high level of fluency, our courses cover a broad spectrum of the culture, history, literature, art, film and philosophy relating to the languages we teach.Within the four-year MML degree you can also study the structure, history and properties of language alongside your study of modern foreign languages and incorporating a year abroad.Alternatively, the three-year degree in Linguistics lets you explore all aspects of language, our most crucially human attribute. Within the wide-ranging discipline of Linguistics you can explore properties which all languages share and which offer insight into the human mind. The degree in Linguistics does not require detailed knowledge of a particular language, and so the course is accessible to those who have a general interest in and knowledge of language.Cambridge is a vibrant and challenging place to study Modern Languages and Linguistics, ranked best in the country by The Guardian for 2017. Our world-renowned scholars and researchers are dedicated to teaching and inspiring undergraduates, and our degrees give you the flexibility to follow your interests and discover new ones. No matter what your background, the teaching at Cambridge will develop your knowledge and skills, enhance your analytical and creative thinking, introduce you to new subjects and approaches, and equip you to pursue independent research. The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages is committed to finding students with the highest potential, from any educational background. If you are a school or college student thinking of studying Modern Languages or Linguistics at university, these pages will provide you with everything you need to know.The Courses We Offer© 2017 University of CambridgeProspective StudentsHomeThinking about studying Linguistics or Modern Languages? The Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages at the University of Cambridge has been ranked best in the country by The Guardian for 2017, beating the University of Oxford for the sixth year running. A maximum score of 100 out of 100 put Cambridge amongst the top rated of all UK Universities for student satisfaction (with the course, teaching, and feedback), as well as student/staff ratio, spend per student, and career destinations.We offer degree level courses in Modern and Medieval Languages (MML), Linguistics, History and Modern Languages, as well as a number of graduate level courses, covering a broad spectrum of the culture, history, literature, art, film and philosophy of the many languages we teach.© 2017 University of CambridgeCoursesHomeThe Slavonic Studies Section at the University of Cambridge is dedicated to teaching the languages of Poland, Russia and Ukraine to a high degree of written and oral excellence. We also seek to promote an interdisciplinary course of study in which our undergraduate and postgraduate students acquire a wide range of knowledge in literature, history, culture, and philology. Our courses of study are rigorous and intensive. We take pride in engaging our students in vigorous debate and discussion by way of a curriculum combining organised lectures and seminars with small group teaching.'Brilliant, Pioneering Analysis': Emma Widdis Launches New Monograph at Tate Modern20 November 2017The Slavonic Studies community at the University of Cambridge is delighted to announce the publication of Emma Widdis’s new book, Socialist Senses: Film, Feeling and the Soviet Subject, 1917-1939 (Indiana University Press, 2017) .Exploring the Complexity of Revolution16 October 2017A century after the tumultuous revolutionary events of 1917, we still struggle to understand their complexity. Our new lecture series seeks to address this problem with public presentations by prominent scholars of both Russia and Ukraine.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgePostgraduate CoursesCoursesThe Slavonic Studies Section at the University of Cambridge offers innovative graduate teaching at the MPhil and PhD levels in the advanced study of Poland, Russian and Ukraine as well as in comparative studies, with an emphasis on cultural history from the Middle Ages to the present day. Our graduates have a noted record of achievement in scholarship and consistent success in securing posts at Europe's best universities.Please refer here for an overview of application guidelines for the MPhil and PhD degrees. Click here to download the flyer promoting postgraduate opportunities in Slavonic Studies at the University of Cambridge.© 2017 University of CambridgeAlumniPostgraduate CoursesClick on an individual's name for more information about their research and publications. © 2017 University of CambridgeInformation for prospective applicantsPostgraduate CoursesThe Department of Slavonic Studies at the University of Cambridge offers innovative graduate teaching at the MPhil and PhD levels in the advanced study of Poland, Russia and Ukraine, with an emphasis on cultural history from the Middle Ages to the present day. Our graduates have a noted record of achievement in scholarship and consistent success in securing posts at Europe's best universities. If you are interested in joining us, please review the following application guidelines.Please note that the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages only accepts students for the PhD who have already completed an MA or MPhil degree in a relevant field with a mark of distinction.One of the most important consideration in applying for a PhD course is the availability of a suitable supervisor for the proposed dissertation project. The PhD is a research degree with no taught elements, and the student's principal contact is with the supervisor. For this reason, we advise all potential applicants to contact potential supervisors with a draft of their research proposal in advance of submitting an application.The Department of Slavonic Studies has particular expertise in the fields of Pre-Modern East Slavic culture; Polish, Russian and Ukrainian Literatures of the 19th and 20th centuries; Slavonic Linguistics; Nationalism Studies; Film and Visual Culture; Memory Studies; and Sensory History.To identify a potential supervisor please see our staff research profiles.Please do not submit a formal GRADSAF application unless a member of the Department is able to supervise your PhD. Self-funded applicants may apply until 31 May for a course to begin in October.All applications must be made via the online application form (GRADSAF) available on the Graduate Admissions Office website.No guarantees of admission can be made by any member of staff or by the Department. Once you have applied and submitted the necessary supporting documents, your application will be considered by the Board of Graduate Studies, the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages, and the appropriate MPhil Director and/or Head of Department.Information on the application process for MML can also be found here.General questions about postgraduate courses may be addressed to the Department’s liaison for graduate studies, Dr Emma Widdis. Enquiries about the application process can be sent to slavonic@mml.cam.ac.uk.For queries to the Board of Graduate Studies, please email  graduate.admissions@admin.cam.ac.uk.© 2017 University of CambridgeMPhilPostgraduate CoursesThe Department of Slavonic Studies very much welcomes MPhil candidates. Three one-year MPhil programmes are offered in the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages:The Department of Slavonic Studies offers an exciting curricular pathway in Slavonic Studies within the framework of the MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literature and Culture at the University of Cambridge. This interdisciplinary degree offers advanced training for students with a deep interest in the literatures and cultures of Poland, Russia and/or Ukraine as well as a solid foundation for future doctoral study.Students will attend the Core Course lectures and mini-seminars offered within the EuroLit programme. In most years at least one of the mini-seminars offered in conjunction with the Core Course will address topics and/or materials with particular relevance to Russia and/or Eastern Europe (i.e. Bakhtin, Formalism, Post-Socialist Identities, Semiotics). This mini-seminar will be open to all MPhil students, but it is particularly recommended for students following the REES pathway, who are also encouraged to write their core course essay on a topic related to Russian and/or East European Studies.  Students will select two modules, of which at least one should be drawn from those offered on Russian and/or East European topics. Students may also choose to write on REES-related topics for many of the Interdisciplinary modules. The following REES-themed modules will be offered in 2016/2017:The list of REES-themed modules will vary from year to year; there will usually be at least three on offer. Topics that may be addressed in REES modules in future years include (but are not limited to):Questions about the availability of a particular REES module or supervisor in any given year should be addressed to the pathway coordinator.  The Department of Slavonic Studies reserves the right to cancel the Core Course mini-seminar and/or any module if fewer than three students are enrolled.The REES pathway through the MPhil in European and Comparative Literatures and Cultures is entirely optional: it is a recommendation and not a prerequisite for applications for doctoral study. Some students may only realize that they wish to pursue a Phd in Slavonic Studies in the middle of their MPhil course; others may wish to pursue the pathway in Medieval and Early Modern Studies, for instance,and then concentrate in their PhD on Slavonic texts.  These students should not feel that their choices in the MPhil will be a disadvantage when they apply to PhD programmes. Each student will have an individual intellectual rationale for his or her course of study.Students with questions about the REES pathway are encouraged to contact the pathway coordinator in 2017-18  Dr Emma Widdis© 2017 University of CambridgePhDPostgraduate CoursesThe Department welcomes post-graduate students wishing to pursue doctoral research in Polish, Russian, and/or Ukrainian Studies or more broadly comparative topics. All lecturers in the Department are available to supervise students for three-year PhD research degrees. Research students benefit from a vibrant research culture and a varied programme of Departmental events. For further information about the PhD course in this Faculty, please consult the dedicated pages for Graduate Study in this Faculty, and in the University Board of Graduate Studies.The Department of Slavonic Studies is particularly noted for its expertise and international standing in the fields of Pre-Modern East Slavic culture; Polish, Russian and Ukrainian Literatures of the 19th and 20th centuries; Slavonic Linguistics; Nationalism Studies; Film and Visual Culture; Memory Studies; Sensory History; and Russian Imperial and Soviet History. Information about the research areas of core staff can be obtained here.Although formal application for a PhD must be made through the University's Board of Graduate Studies, you are encouraged to make direct contact with the relevant member(s) of academic staff and to discuss the feasibility of your topic. General questions about the course may be addressed to the Department’s liaison for graduate studies, Dr Emma Widdis. The usual prerequisite for acceptance to the PhD is a mark of distinction in the MPhil or equivalent degree in a relevant subject. Applicants should also note that the first year of doctoral study is a probationary one and students are only officially 'registered' for the PhD after satisfactory completion of a formal assessment at the end of the first year of study.The Department of Slavonic Studies is pleased to announce its membership in the new AHRC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Russian, Slavonic and East European Languages and Culture. Coordinated by the Centre for East European Language-Based Area Studies (CEELBAS), the new Centre will fund PhD/D.Phil studentships for selected candidates who have been offered places to start doctoral research in the field of Russian, Slavonic and East European languages and culture at one of the four universities in the CDT consortium: UCL, Cambridge, Manchester and Oxford. For details and application information, please go to the CDT homepage.The Slavonic Department also offers a part-time route to the PhD. This route might be suitable for graduates who work part-time; who are employed in the Cambridge region; or whose employer views such a programme of study as representing valuable staff development. Current employees of the University of Cambridge are also eligible to apply.Students interested in studying part-time should discuss their application with the Departmental liaison for graduate studies. Further information on part-time research degrees in the University of Cambridge is available here. © 2017 University of CambridgeCurrent Postgraduate Students in the DepartmentPostgraduate CoursesClick on an individual student's name for more information about their research and publications. © 2017 University of CambridgeBohdan TokarskyCurrent StudentsSt John's Collegebt330@cam.ac.ukIn my research, I am focussing on the works of a prominent Ukrainian poet, Vasyl Stus, studying the self-exploration of the lyrical ‘I’ in his works and the new poetical language that Stus introduced. It is important to me to place the poetry of this leading figure of twentieth century Ukrainian literature within a broader cultural landscape and show the significance of discovering the Other and overcoming ‘the provincialism of big nations’ according to Milan Kundera’s apt formula. I am also working on the ‘ciphered’ texts and masks of Ukrainian modernism, the Garrotted Renaissance, and the complex articulation of the ‘I’ therein. Moreover, I am extremely enthusiastic about discovering the culture of laughter in Ukraine in the sixteenth – nineteenth centuries, and its national, social and religious implications.            Ukrainian, Russian, French, German© 2017 University of CambridgeDaria MattinglyCurrent StudentsRobinson Collegedm628@cam.ac.ukMy project is an interdisciplinary examination of the identities, activities and memorial traces of the rank-and-file perpetrators of the 1932-33 famine in Ukraine, known as the Holodomor. While Stalin and his fuctionaries in the Kremlin have long become an object of enquiry, people who directly facilitated mass famine in Ukraine have largely been neglected by scholars. Who were the perpetrators on the ground? How have they been remembered?To answer such questions, I propose a methodology that incorporates a microhistorical analysis of the famine period with a close reading of memorial and cultural texts composed after the famine. I draw on archival data, testimonies of the perpetrators and the survivors of the famine, and on contemporary ‘post-memory’. Casting what took place in the rest of the country in greater relief, my study challenges reductive readings of the famine as well as readings of its active participants as outcasts devoid of historical agency. With this project I hope to contribute to the study of the Holodomor Studies and to history of Soviet Union more generally.Supervising for 'European History since 1890' (Part 1, Paper 18)
Supervising for 'Socialist Russia 1917-1991' (SL 12)Russian, Ukrainian, intermediate French, basic German, Hebrew and Serb/Croatwww.dariamattingly.comhttps://www.facebook.com/pages/Places-of-Amnesia/774645335907633 © 2017 University of CambridgeIryna ShuvalovaCurrent StudentsSt John's Collegeis411@cam.ac.ukThe easiest way to define my research would be to say that I focus on war writing.This would be almost true, except that it is war speaking and war singing that fascinate me most. In other words, I am looking at oral poetry, exploring how it reflects armed conflict and post-conflict trauma: what it does when confronting these issues, and how it does it.At this point in my research, I define ‘oral poetry’ very broadly: from traditional songs to contemporary pop, or pieces performed at poetry slams. Meanwhile, the social and historical setting of my project is very specific: it is Ukraine in times of the War in Donbass (March 2014 – present).Over these past couple of years, Ukrainians faced an acute need to somehow put an unspeakable experience of war into words, which brought back to the surface the visual and textual vocabulary shaped by the earlier tradition. I am looking at how this vocabulary merged with the contemporary discourse, becoming transformed and transforming the new context it permeated.One of the things that interest me most at the moment is digital orality – specifically, the way oral poetry exists on the Web and in the connected society. Arguably, the Web disrupts the traditional vision of the oral/written continuum in a number of exciting ways. I am now looking into how Ukrainian oral poetry about war, in its many shapes and flavours, exists in the digital space.My interest in poetry is closely linked to my own work as a poet. I published several collections of verse and struggled myself to speak of the unspeakable, with varying degrees of success. ​EditedTranslatedUkrainian, Russian – native proficiency; German, Polish and Spanish – limited working proficiency; French, Greek (modern) and Italian – elementary proficiency.© 2017 University of CambridgeJon RoozenbeekCurrent StudentsDarwin Collegejjr51@cam.ac.ukIn my research, I look at Ukraine’s media landscape after 2014, focusing especially on the online sphere. What I hope to find out is not only how this landscape has changed since Ukraine’s revolution, but also how the country’s ongoing internal and external conflicts have influenced online and offline debate, and what this means for Ukrainians’ national identity. I do this by employing a range of theoretical and methodological concepts from sociology, media studies, and other fields.Aside from this, I am also interested in exploring the role of (social) media, propaganda, and disinformation at a more general theoretical level. For example, I am currently working on publications on the role of Reddit in the 2016 US elections, and on longitudinally inoculating audiences against misinformation and propagandistic persuasion techniques.Before I came to Cambridge, I worked as a journalist and researcher, mostly writing about primary education reform in the Netherlands. This has resulted in a number of publications. Out of personal interest, I am also involved in side projects about 17th century German and Polish Jewish history and helium microscopy. Dutch (native), German (fluent), Swedish (fluent), Russian (fluent), Portuguese (proficient), Spanish (proficient), Ukrainian (acquiring proficiency).© 2017 University of CambridgeKatarzyna BrzezinskaCurrent StudentsClare Collegekwb21@cam.ac.ukI began my PhD researching the Enthusiasts (Entuzjastki), a nineteenth-century Polish women’s group led by the writer Narcyza Żmichowska. However, in the early stages of my research I came across, and became fascinated by, Wirydianna Fiszerowa, an eighteenth-century Polish noblewoman who lived through and participated in some of the most tumultuous events of Polish history in this period. At the end of her life she recounted her experiences in her memoirs. Offering a fascinating glimpse into the history of eighteenth and nineteenth century Poland, the text intertwines stories of significant political events with portraits of important historical figures and descriptions of the seemingly mundane familial life of a Polish noblewoman. Using the memoirs as a starting point, my project now seeks to examine Polish noblewomen’s role in public life in Poland in the long eighteenth century, and within a broader European context. I am especially interested in the fluidity between public and private spheres.My broader research interests include European women’s history in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, women’s writing, and the European Enlightenment. I am especially interested in women’s self-representation in writing, and in the past I have worked on the British courtesan Harriette Wilson and her memoirs, the Italian courtesan and writer Tullia d’Aragona, as well as the British scientist and writer Margaret Cavendish. Polish (fluent), French (intermediate), Italian (basic), Russian (basic)© 2017 University of CambridgeKatie SykesCurrent StudentsNewnham Collegecps34@cam.ac.ukI am currently researching constructions of religious difference, particularly perceived differences between the Christianity of Rus and the Christianity of the 'Latin' West, in texts from early Rus (c. 988-1300). The past few decades have seen a great deal of interest both in the construction of collective identities in medieval narrative texts and in the rhetorical strategies of these texts. My research draws on these trends to provide readings of a number of Old East Slavonic texts (chronicles, canon law, hagiography, etc.) which emphasise their portrayal of difference between Rus Christians and religious 'others' ('Latins', 'pagans', etc.).Although I primarily work with Old East Slavonic texts, my broader research interests span medieval religions, cultures and languages. My work to date has focused primarily on the evolution of Christian concepts in the texts of early Rus.Old Slavonic, Russian, Frenchacademia.edu page at https://cambridge.academia.edu/KatieSykes © 2017 University of CambridgeMariia TerentievaCurrent StudentsQueens Collegemt667@cam.ac.ukAs a former television and Internet journalist, United Nations Development Programme communication professional, and a media scholar, I am fascinated by unfolding opportunities for development of participatory society in Ukraine with the rise of new media, and deeply intrigued by the changing relationship between the state and the civil society in the digital era.My current research navigates the new media landscape in Ukraine with a focus on public service media, grassroots digital start-ups and social media campaigns, which aim to provide new mechanisms for public control and advance informed citizen-led solutions for striking social issues. The project seeks to understand how the architecture and affordances of digital media, enabling wide-scale public participation in production and circulation of information in the digital public space, is contributing to the development of civil society and acting an instrument for what I call public ‘self-service’.With my interdisciplinary research at the crossroads of internet studies, politics, sociology and public policy, I aim to address larger theoretical concerns such as changing public identity online, emerging digital citizenry, the affordances of digital media as a space for public discussions, and the role of digital organisations (such as Facebook, Twitter, Google etc) in mediating online communications, influencing social and political discourses, and contributing to development of civil society in Ukraine.Ukrainian (native), Russian (native), advanced French (DALF C1), basic Spanish and Germanhttps://cambridge.academia.edu/MariiaTerentieva© 2017 University of CambridgeNicholas MayhewCurrent StudentsJesus Collegenm425@cam.ac.ukI am interested in gender and sexuality in Russia. My work in this field covers a broad chronology. Although my doctoral thesis focussed on the sixteenth to early eighteenth centuries, I have completed research projects examining gender and sexuality in different periods, from the Middle Ages to the twenty-first century. My next major project is a monograph exploring laws against homosexuality in Imperial Russia.1. Culture coursesIntroduction to Russian CultureI hold weekly classes, teaching the canon of Russian literature, including Karamzin, Pushkin, Lermontov, Turgenev, Gogol, Akhmatova and Mandelstam, as well as visual culture from Kievan and Muscovite icons through to neoclassicism, critical realism, constructivism, futurism and Stalin-era propaganda posters. I also introduce students to Russian cinema, offering a class on Chelovek s kinoapparatom.The History and Culture of Early RusI have offered lecture-style sessions for students enrolled on this course, on topics of special interest. Most recently I gave a lecture on Slavonic liturgy as a literary genre.2. Language coursesRussian for BeginnersI teach beginners’ Russian to first-year students, covering the alphabet and phonetics, everyday spoken language and all grammatical topics (including case declensions and verbal conjugations, verbs of motions, gerunds and participles).Intermediate Translation from RussianI am solely responsible for organising the course. I have developed a syllabus which is designed to allow students to explore different approaches to translating nineteenth-century literature, contemporary prose and journalistic articles.Russian Text and Culture (Advanced)I run weekly tutorials for the advanced final-year Russian language paper. I teach translation from English into Russian and essay-writing in Russian. I am responsible for organising the setting and marking of mock examinations in the final termNear-native fluency: RussianExcellent knowledge: Church Slavonic, French, GermanBasic knowledge: Byzantine Greek, Swedish© 2017 University of CambridgeOlenka DmytrykCurrent StudentsTrinity HallCurrently working on gender and sexual dissent in contemporary Russia and Ukraine, focusing on the interaction between art and activism.© 2017 University of CambridgeRosemari Bainbridge Current StudentsTrinity Collegereb66@cam.ac.ukMy doctoral project investigates the relationship between words and images in Russian and Soviet silent cinema with the aim of liberating the much-maligned intertitle: film was a privileged site in which words could, and were expected to, fulfil a variety of functions. The identification of formative moments in the history of cinema when Soviet film-makers fully embraced the linguistic and aesthetic potentials that lie at the boundary between image and text is central to my argument; words were not included in silent films for their content meaning alone. This work has been influenced by research that I conducted for my MA dissertation at the University of Durham, which explored the earliest activities of Viktor Shklovsky in the Soviet film industry.© 2017 University of CambridgeRosie FinlinsonCurrent StudentsFitzwilliam Collegerf303@cam.ac.ukI am currently researching the construction of female piety in Muscovy with reference to a group of five hagiographical narratives composed between the mid-16th and late 17th centuries known as the ‘Murom Cycle’.Three of the five texts portray native female figures, which is unusual in the canon of East Slavonic hagiographical literature. Furthermore, all of these saintly figures are situated outside institutional ecclesiastical spaces. My research examines the way in which family roles and the engagement in domestic or non-ecclesiastical activities are presented in these texts as a means of exemplifying alternative modes of piety beyond the monastery, and explores how these modes are gendered.In conjunction with other sources of the period, I am using this collection of texts as a case study for examining how perceptions of gender are informed by changing social and religious contexts, in this instance during the period of upheaval following the reign of Ivan IV.Russian, French, Old Slavonic   © 2017 University of CambridgeSamuel GoffCurrent StudentsFitzwilliam Collegesg466@cam.ac.ukMy PhD research examined visual and written culture of the interwar Soviet Union dealing with the body as an object of public observation, appreciation, and critique. It explored how the need to construct new Soviet subjectivities was realised through the figure of the body. I explored the representation of ‘physical culture’ (fizkul’tura), with reference to newspapers, specialist fizkul’tura and medical journals, and Party debates. This textual discourse is considered alongside visual primary sources –documentary and non-fiction film and photography, painting and sculpture, and feature films. Undergraduate supervisor, MML:I work as the Features Editor for The Calvert Journal (http://calvertjournal.com), an online magazine devoted to the contemporary culture of eastern Europe and Central Asia. Russian, French, Serbo-Croat© 2017 University of CambridgeCoursesYear 1 - Part IAYear 2 - Part IBYear 3 - Part II beginsYear 4 - Part II continuesPart IBPart IIPart IBPart II The Slavonic Studies Section at the University of Cambridge runs Open Courses in Polish and Ukrainian.'Brilliant, Pioneering Analysis': Emma Widdis Launches New Monograph at Tate Modern20 November 2017The Slavonic Studies community at the University of Cambridge is delighted to announce the publication of Emma Widdis’s new book, Socialist Senses: Film, Feeling and the Soviet Subject, 1917-1939 (Indiana University Press, 2017) .Exploring the Complexity of Revolution16 October 2017A century after the tumultuous revolutionary events of 1917, we still struggle to understand their complexity. Our new lecture series seeks to address this problem with public presentations by prominent scholars of both Russia and Ukraine.
    
      View all news    
  © 2017 University of CambridgeScheduled Papers in Slavonic StudiesUndergraduate CoursesOverview of Scheduled Papers offered by Slavonic Studies . 
All papers (with the exception of Paper SL10: Studies in Twentieth Century Ukrainian Literature and Film and CS3: The Slavonic Languages - Part II Only) are available at Part IB and Part II. © 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePostgraduate CoursesHomeInformation:Latin American Cultural Studies ConsortiumThe Department of Spanish and Portuguese and the Centre of Latin American Studies are pleased to announce a new Consortium in Latin American Cultural Studies for PhD students.See below for more details...The Department of Spanish and Portuguese very much welcomes postgraduate students, both at the level of MPhil (Masters) and at the level of PhD (Doctorate). We are one of the largest Hispanic and Lusophone departments in the UK, and one of the most highly ranked departments for research.The Department offers a wide selection of specialized MPhil seminars that allow you to explore some of the most important periods and aspects of Hispanic and Lusophone culture from an extensive range of theoretical and critical perspectives: Middle Ages, Golden Age, Modern Peninsular, Portuguese and Lusophone, Catalan, Latin American Studies and Hispanic Linguistics. Members of the Department who teach on these courses specialize in a broad variety of topics and areas of research.We offer our graduates expert teaching, and the research interests of individual students is developed through tailored one-to-one supervisions.  Students interested in pursuing an MPhil or a PhD in Spanish, Catalan, Linguistics, Lusophone and Latin American Studies will find an outstanding group of supervisors to work with, and are encouraged to contact members of the Department to discuss how their particular research projects might be pursued.Postgraduates here enjoy the facilities of one of the most important University Libraries of the country. In addition to this, it should be noted that there are several funding opportunities to support their research, both through the University and the Colleges: AHRC-funded Studentships; Gibson Spanish Scholarship (up to £3,000); J B Trend Travel Fund (travel grants); the Santander Mobility Grants (travel grants). (1) One-year MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures. This MPhil is taught by the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages (MML) as a whole, and consists of a Core Course in literary theory, culture and literary analysis plus a wide choice of modules, assessed by coursework and dissertation. The Department of Spanish and Portuguese runs six of these modules:Al-Andalus and España: Translatio and Tolerance. This module studies the relationship between Muslim culture and Iberia, considering them not as separate entities but rather as inextricably linked.Golden Age Literature and Culture: The Baroque Marvel.  This module explores the complexity of Baroque culture in the light of the epistemological revolution of Early Modern Europe and its artistic consequences.Iberian Voices. This module analyses the interplay between the different cultures that define modern Peninsular art and thought, especially Spanish, Catalan and Portuguese.Latin American Literary Culture. This Latin American Pathway module provides an in-depth view of a series of specialist topics in Latin American Culture: e.g., urban post/modernity in literature and art, popular culture, writing and dictatorship, women’s writing, gender and the ‘boom’.Latin American Film and Visual Arts. This Latin American Pathway module offers students the opportunity to analyse some of the most exciting films, photography, architecture and art to have emerged in Latin America in the 20th and 21st Centuries.The Consolidation and Crisis of Representation in Ibero-American Literature. This Latin American Pathway module seeks to build bridges between the two major languages of Iberia and Latin America: Spanish and Portuguese. It allows you to study literary culture and intellectual currents from Spain and Latin America (including Brazil) with an emphasis on the trans-Atlantic dimensions of these cultures.See also the following ‘pathways’ through the MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures:(2) One-year MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics. This MPhil is taught by the Department of Linguistics and the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages (MML). The Department of Spanish and Portuguese runs one module:(3) One-year MPhil in Film and Screen Studies. This MPhil focuses on the interdisciplinary study of film and media, with a focus on moving images. It consists of a Core Course designed to give students a broad insight into moving image theory and culture, plus a wide range of modules taught by staff from Modern and Medieval Languages and a range of other Departments. The course is assessed by three course essays and a dissertation. The Department of Spanish and Portuguese runs one module:Latin American Film and Visual Arts. This module offers students the opportunity to analyse some of the most exciting films to have emerged in Latin America in the 20th and 21st Centuries.The Department is formed by some of the leading experts in topics such as Medieval studies, Golden Age, Modern Peninsular, Latin American, Catalan culture, Hispanic Linguistics, Lusophone literature and art. Between them they have offered superision in research for the PhD on an exciting range of topics, and welcome enquiries from potential research students.Student response to our programme has been enthusiastic throughout the years and we have provided a unique training to support the personal and academic development of many young scholars who are currently holding academic jobs in different centres in the UK and abroad. Please click here to read the comments of some of our alumni.The Department of Spanish and Portuguese and the Centre of Latin American Studies are pleased to announce a new Consortium in Latin American Cultural Studies for PhD students. This new flexible arrangement will foster a greater exchange of ideas between students and scholars in the Department and the Centre and provide more opportunities for them to access relevant training, funding and other resources.PhD students who are admitted either to the Department of Spanish and Portuguese or to the Centre of Latin American Studies and who are working on a subject within Latin American literary, visual or cultural studies will automatically become members of the cross-departmental Consortium in Latin American Cultural Studies. Applicants are free to apply in the first instance to whichever department they wish. Once a suitable supervisor has been identified, applications will normally be transferred for processing by the department in which the supervisor is based. If students take up an offer of a place, they will formally be registered in their principal supervisor’s department but will in practice be members of both the Department of Spanish and Portuguese and the Centre of Latin American Studies under the special Consortium arrangement, with full access to the training, development and funding opportunities offered by both the Department and the Centre. Read the news article about the ConsortiumOther links: For all enquiries about graduate studies in the Department, please contact Dr Rory O'Bryen.© 2017 University of CambridgeApplications and FundingPostgraduatesInformation on applications, entry requirements and funding can be found here. The requirement for admission to any graduate course is a good honours degree in French or Modern Languages. The standard normally required is that of a first class or high 2.1 degree, or its equivalent. It is also expected that all candidates for a PhD will have achieved a distinction in a masters degree by the time they begin the doctorate.Applicants for the PhD will be called for interview by members of the Department in the Lent (Spring) Term of the year in which they wish to begin their studies. The interview will seek to establish the suitability of the candidate in relation to our resources and specialist interests. There are several funding opportunities to support postgraduate research, both through the University and the Colleges: AHRC-funded Studentships; Gibson Spanish Scholarship (up to £3,000); J B Trend Travel Fund (travel grants); the Santander Mobility Grants (travel grants).  Applicants should contact Dr Rory O'Bryen for more information on graduate study in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese and should consult our staff research interests.© 2017 University of CambridgeLatin American Pathway for Postgraduate StudyMPhilLlegada á Popayán (1884)There are two full Latin American modules, and one Early Modern Iberian and Latin American module, available within the MPhil (Masters) in European, Latin American, and Comparative Literatures and Cultures (ELAC). One of these is also available within the MPhil in Film and Screen Studies. You can also undertake a PhD in any area of Latin American Cultural Studies within the Department of Spanish and Portuguese as part of the Latin American Cultural Studies Consortium.The available MPhil modules are: Full information about the first two of these modules is available on the website of the Centre of Latin American Studies (see links below), but please note that you can take both modules within the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages because they are full "native" modules of the ELAC MPhil, and do not count as borrowed modules. Information about the Ibero-American Literature module (including Brazilian literature) is available from ELAC pages (link below). You can of course also combine either with any of the other available modules from the Department of Spanish and Portuguese, or within the Faculty more broadly.Please see the following links for further information:We also welcome enquiries from those interested in undertaking a PhD in any area of Latin American Cultural Studies. All students will study under the umbrella of the Latin American Cultural Studies Consortium, which is made up of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese and the Centre of Latin American Studies. You would become a member of both Departments and would have access to all of the facilites offered by both of these institutions. You should identify a member of staff with whom you would like to work and make initial contact by email, describing your educational background, your research interests and an initial idea of the project you wish to undertake. If you are unsure whom to approach, you may seek advice from any of the Latin Americanists who teach for the Department: Steven Boldy, Geoffrey Kantaris, Rory O'Bryen, Joanna Page, Erica Segre or the Head of Department, Brad Epps.Please see the contact information on the Postgraduate Courses page.© 2017 University of CambridgeSpanish and PortugueseThe Department of Spanish and Portuguese very much welcomes MPhil (Masters) students. We are one of the largest Hispanic and Lusophone departments in the UK, and one of the most highly ranked departments for research.The Department offers a wide selection of specialised MPhil seminars that allow you to explore some of the most important periods and aspects of Hispanic and Lusophone culture from an extensive range of theoretical and critical perspectives: Middle Ages, Golden Age, Modern Peninsular, Portuguese and Lusophone, Catalan, Latin American Studies and Hispanic Linguistics. Members of the Department who teach on these courses specialise in a broad variety of topics and areas of research. This one year MPhil is taught by the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages (MML) as a whole, and consists of a Core Course in literary theory, culture and literary analysis plus a wide choice of modules, assessed by coursework and dissertation. The Department of Spanish and Portuguese runs the following modules:Myth and Invention: Medieval and Early Modern Iberian and Latin American Culture (Dr L Haywood and Dr R Cacho)Latin American Culture: Modernity and Marginality in Latin American Literary Culture (Dr Rory O'Bryen)Latin American Film: Latin American Film and Visutal Arts (Dr J Page)See also the following ‘pathways’ through the MPhil in European, Latin American and Comparative Literatures and Cultures:This one year MPhil focuses on the interdisciplinary study of film and media, with a focus on moving images. It consists of a Core Course designed to give students a broad insight into moving image theory and culture, plus a wide range of modules taught by staff from Modern and Medieval Languages and a range of other Departments. The course is assessed by three course essays and a dissertation. The Department of Spanish and Portuguese runs one module:Latin American Film and Visual ArtsThis one-year MPhil is taught by the Department of Linguistics and the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages (MML). It is possible to take the Hispanic Pathway of the MPhil in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics. This pathway allows students to specialise in the linguistics of the Hispanic languages in the context of general theoretical linguistics. It aims to give students the research skills and necessary intellectual background in Hispanic and general linguistics to allow them to pursue independent research on Hispanic linguistics.We offer our graduates expert teaching, and the research interests of individual students is developed through tailored one-to-one supervisions.  Students interested in pursuing an MPhil in Spanish, Catalan, Linguistics, Lusophone and Latin American Studies will find an outstanding group of supervisors to work with, and are encouraged to contact members of the Department to discuss how their particular research projects might be pursued.It should also be noted that postgraduates here enjoy the facilities of one of the most important University Libraries of the country.There are several funding opportunities to support postgraduate research, both through the University and the Colleges: AHRC-funded Studentships; Gibson Spanish Scholarship (up to £3,000); J B Trend Travel Fund (travel grants); the Santander Mobility Grants (travel grants).  For all enquiries about graduate studies in the Department, please contact Dr Maite Conde.© 2017 University of CambridgePhDPostgraduatesThe Department of Spanish and Portuguese very much welcomes PhD students. We are one of the largest Hispanic and Lusophone departments in the UK, and one of the most highly ranked departments for research. The members of our Department specialise in a broad variety of topics and areas of research. They are some of the leading experts in topics such as Medieval studies, Golden Age, Modern Peninsular, Latin American, Catalan culture, Hispanic Linguistics, Lusophone literature and art. Between them they have offered superision in research for the PhD on an exciting range of topics, and welcome enquiries from potential research students.Student response to our programme has been enthusiastic throughout the years and we have provided a unique training to support the personal and academic development of many young scholars who are currently holding academic jobs in different centres in the UK and abroad. Postgraduates here enjoy the facilities of one of the most important University Libraries of the country. In addition to this, it should be noted that there are several funding opportunities to support their research, both through the University and the Colleges: AHRC-funded Studentships; Gibson Spanish Scholarship (up to £3,000); J B Trend Travel Fund (travel grants); the Santander Mobility Grants (travel grants).  Please see our current PhD students and former students' testimonials.© 2017 University of CambridgeFormer PhD StudentsPhD Students in Spanish & PortugueseBell, Dr Lucy Gilbert, Dr JanIndependent researcher and freelance translator in Brazil.  Previously, holder of the Santander Portuguese Postdoctoral Senior Studentship (2012-2015), Clare College, University of Cambridge. Affiliated Lecturer at the Department of Spanish and Portuguese, University of Cambridge© 2017 University of CambridgeCurrent PhD StudentsPostgraduatesAn asterisk * denotes a student who is a member of the Latin American Cultural Studies Consortium between our Department and CLAS (Centre of Latin American Studies). The fiction of the nonfiction. Constructing conversations in contemporary Latin American documentary narratives.Please also see our list of former PhD students and student testimonials. © 2017 University of CambridgeTestimonialsPhD Students in Spanish & PortugueseI spent five years in total as a graduate student in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese, with the first four of these funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council. I completed the MPhil in European Literature and Culture in 2006-07, and then conducted research for my PhD in 2007-11. The MPhil was sufficiently flexible to allow me to explore diverse interests in Spanish and Italian and to try out different critical approaches before settling on an area of study for my doctoral work. During my PhD in Golden Age Spanish, I was able to strike a balance between independent research and expert guidance, engaging in a true dialogue with my supervisor and with the wider academic community, before presenting my findings and interpretations in my doctoral dissertation.The standard of teaching and supervision that I received in the Department was outstanding, and the excellent resources available within the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages and on a university-wide basis contributed to the progression of my work. However, these important aspects of my time in Cambridge were only part of the picture. I attended a broad range of research papers and organised the departmental Spanish seminars in the second year of my PhD, and I undertook some teaching during my time in Cambridge as well. My supervisor oversaw the development of my academic profile, providing invaluable advice on publishing and conference presentations, whilst the Faculty and University organised an extremely useful programme of graduate training, preparing doctoral students for life beyond the PhD. I was fortunate enough to secure a temporary college lecturing post in Oxford, followed by a Junior Research Fellowship at Christ Church, Oxford, and I am now a lecturer at the University of Exeter, all positions for which my time and experiences in Cambridge prepared me extensively.  I was an undergraduate at Cambridge and staying on to do graduate study there, both an MPhil in European Literature, then a PhD, was the best decision I ever made. The MPhil course was impeccably organized and taught, and the diversity of the cohort made for a stimulating experience both intellectually and socially. I found the balance between taught seminars and independent research to be just right, and was able to pursue my specialist interests at the same time as gathering a broader and more solid knowledge of theoretical and critical issues. The Faculty also offered a wide range of seminars and events that gave me an insight into research culture at this level, helping me to better contextualize and think about my own work. I also particularly appreciated the detailed, personalized, and honest feedback that came with assessed work, advice which I took forward into the PhD.As a PhD student my experience was equally positive. The training provided on the MPhil, and the dissertation I wrote that year, stood me in excellent stead to undertake a larger piece of writing. I could not have asked for a more supportive and knowledgeable supervisor, whose guidance and wisdom helped me to make the transition to doctoral work and gain in confidence all the time. The Spanish and Portuguese Department felt especially welcoming and sensitive to the needs of its graduates. I had the opportunity to teach both language and literature to undergraduate students, and even to undertake some lecturing, which was vital training for my future career. I came such a long way with the support of the graduate framework at Cambridge that I was successful in my first application for a permanent academic post. I enjoyed my graduate experience at Cambridge wholeheartedly and think of it with great memories, and with gratitude. As a PhD student in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at the University of Cambridge I received a great deal of support from my supervisors, who were always keen to listen to my opinion and guide me in the direction of readings that I had not yet come across.  Concurrently, the University Library provided a wealth of resources that proved fundamental to my research project, including a number of rare documents, such as travel accounts of Europeans visiting Brazil in the nineteenth century.Aside from my research, as a PhD student at the University of Cambridge I have had the opportunity to develop other vital areas of academic work. T he Faculty-run workshops cover an array of important issues for graduate students, including how to give a lecture, how to make the most of library resources, how to get work published, and how to organise academic seminars and conferences. I found the workshops relating to teaching particularly useful, as from my first year as a PhD student I was involved in supervising and teaching undergraduate students in subject areas such as Brazilian literature, Mozambican poetry, and translation from Portuguese into English. I even had the opportunity to supervise a student on their year abroad project on the Brazilian writer Rachel de Queiros!  Furthermore, I found that the Spanish and Portuguese Departmental Seminars, which are organised entirely by second-year PhD students, are great for networking and allowing graduate students to experience yet another important element of life as an academic.In all, I believe that the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at the University of Cambridge provided me with the opportunity to gain a well-rounded experience of academic life, from research, to teaching, to organising conferences and seminars.  This well-rounded experience enabled me to progress smoothly and swiftly to the next stage of my academic year, and I am now undertaking a Santander Post-doctoral Senior Studentship in Portuguese Literary and Cultural Studies at Clare College, University of Cambridge.  I came from the United States with a BA and MA, and completed my PhD in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese in 2007. As I think back on my time at Cambridge I feel that it was the ideal place to complete my education. I found the atmosphere in Cambridge ideal for someone completing a graduate program. The frequent seminars and workshops were intellectually stimulating as well as a great opportunity for networking. The facilities were more than adequate, and the MML Library and UL provide everything a graduate student could hope for when working on a thesis. I also went to as many of the workshops (preparing CVs, job interviews, etc). as possible, and felt sufficiently prepared when the time came to find a job.Without a doubt my relationship with my supervisor was most important factor in my success beyond graduation. Not only did my supervisor guide me through the preparation of my thesis, she also helped mentor me and prepare me for life in academia. I can think of no better way to learn what it means to be a teacher-scholar than by observing the fabulous individuals in the MML Faculty. After completing undergraduate studies at the University of Edinburgh, I spent four years at Cambridge University as a graduate student, first as a student on the MPhil in European literature (2003-4), and then as a PhD student in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese (2004-7). The MPhil was an excellent grounding for further study. It provided lots of opportunities for discussion with academics from across the Faculty, and the teaching was of very high quality. It gave me the opportunity to try out a range of theoretical and critical approaches as well as the confidence and academic support to refine a PhD proposal and start doctoral work the following year. During the three years of the PhD, the support I received from my supervisor and from the Department more widely was outstanding and invaluable. The Department sponsored my PhD during a period of financial hardship, whilst my supervisor provided sound guidance on many aspects of doctoral life and things like publishing and job applications, as well as expert subject knowledge. There was a wider support network there, too: a Departmental mentor was available to me for PhD-related discussions in her specialist area, and seminars and events meant that I got to know other members of staff in the Department. I was also given the opportunity to gain teaching and lecturing experience during the second two years of my doctorate, which is all-important when applying for first jobs. I am certain this enabled me to secure mine, at the University of Bath, where I started as a Lecturer in Latin American Cultural Studies in 2008.The research facilities and environment at Cambridge are second to none, and were hugely beneficial to my graduate experience, as was the overall friendliness and supportive atmosphere provided by Spanish and Portuguese. My time there prepared me very well indeed for the next stages of academic life, and the friends and contacts I made there continue to be essential.© 2017 University of CambridgeSpanish and PortugueseThe information here is primarily intended for current undergraduates of Spanish and/or Portuguese. If you are thinking of studying Spanish or Portuguese here, you are welcome to look around to get a feel for what is taught in the Department, but you may prefer to start by looking at the Faculty Prospectus.See information about:© 2017 University of CambridgeUndergraduates“¡Ni me habla a mí el dicho libro!” ... y lo echó el dicho libro
de las manos el dicho Ynga Ataguálpa Below is an overview of the course structure for Spanish and/or Portuguese. It is possible to study Spanish and Portuguese as your two required languages in Cambridge, or else you can combine one of these languages with one of the other languages offered in the Faculty.
 © 2017 University of CambridgePart Ia - Spanish and PortugueseCourses and papersPlease choose the Part Ia language about which you would like more information:© 2017 University of CambridgePart Ib - Spanish and PortugueseCourses and papersPlease choose the Part Ib language about which you would like more information:© 2017 University of CambridgePart II - Spanish and PortugueseCourses and papersPlease choose the Part II language about which you would like more information:© 2017 University of CambridgeTeaching Provision - Undergraduate StudentsCurrent undergraduatesThe information below details the teaching hours to which students are entitled from the MML Faculty for the different papers, and the hours we recommend for supervision in colleges. It aims to inform students and their Directors of Studies of the teaching arrangements the Faculty recommends for a successful course of study for the different components of the MML or Linguistics Tripos. The Senior Tutor's Committee recommended in 2010 that Faculties set out departmental guidelines on supervision norms, and that Faculty education committees keep those guidelines under annual review. A maximum of four hours of Faculty teaching per week are allowed. An exception is allowed for Russian, based on the recognised difficulty of learning this language from scratch.Weekly supervisions in college are recommended, especially to support oral work (20 hours per year). An exception is ab initio Russian, where the norm is twice-weekly supervisions (40 hours per year).Paper B1 classes should be taught weekly, with only six pieces of written work per term.Paper B2 classes should be taught fortnightly (i.e. ten hours per year: four in Michaelmas, four in Lent and two sessions in Easter, which may take the form of classes or revision lectures).There should be an average class size of 13 or 14, with a maximum class size of 16.Weekly supervisions in college are recommended, especially to support oral work.Paper B3 classes should be taught fortnightly (i.e. ten hours per year). Variable arrangements are allow for the provision of Language through Audio-visual Media.There are no recommended supervisions for AV, save for the Department of French, where the norm is 4-6 per term. There are no recommended supervisions for B3 papers.Paper C1 classes should be taught weekly (i.e. twenty hours per year). Paper C1 classes should have an average class size of 12.Paper C2 classes should be taught fortnightly (i.e. ten hours per year).Four hours of supervision are recommended for C2 papers.The teaching norm shall be 16-20 hours over the year, with the exception of Fr1, Ge1, It1, Pg1, Sl1 and Sp1, which shall each be up to 24 hours.The recommended norm is fortnightly supervisions (i.e. 8 - 10 hours over the year, depending on whether revision supervisions are given during the Easter Term), with the following exceptions:Department of FrenchDepartment of German and DutchDepartment of Italian (including Modern Greek)Department of Slavonic StudiesDepartment of Spanish and Portuguese© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeCurrent undergraduatesCurrent StudentsInformation on the courses available to current undergraduates.> MML Part IA - List of Papers> MML Part IB - List of Papers> The Year Abroad> MML Part II - List of Papers> Linguistics Tripos - List of Papers© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgePage not foundHome© 2017 University of CambridgeAdditional Course CostsCurrent undergraduatesMML and Linguistics undergraduate students incur expenses for the following (Please refer to the relevant subject area websites to find out about subject-specific costs, such as course books, DVDs, etc., and to the Year Abroad website to find out about costs for the year spent abroad):In addition the following is relevant to students taking the MML degree course:The EU referendum result does not affect UK students currently studying in the EU, EU students currently studying in the UK, current beneficiaries of Erasmus funding or those applying for Erasmus funding in 2017. The UK's future access to the Erasmus programme will be determined as part of wider discussions with the EU. The Faculty will keep the situation under review and this web page will be updated as and when new information is released.More broadly, existing UK students studying in the EU, and those looking to start in the next academic year, will continue to be subject to current arrangements. Please see https://www.gov.uk/government/news/statement-on-higher-education-and-research-following-the-eu-referendum.Year Abroad costs: detailed information is provided by the Year Abroad Office prior to the period of compulsory study abroad. According to Government guidance, all UK/EU students on the Year Abroad are requried to pay only 15% of the UK Composition Fee. Overseas students pay 50% of the overseas student fee. Each year, approximately two thirds of our students taking their Year Abroad in the EU benefit from the Erasmus scheme. This is funded by the European Commission and provides grants that cover living expenses. Erasmus funding for students taking their year abroad in 2016-17, or applying for Erasmus funding during 2017 will be unaffected by the decision to leave the EU. We are keeping the situation under close review and will publish updated information here as soon as it becomes available. For most UK/EU students and most Year Abroad activities the normal student loans are available to cover maintenance costs and fees.Students should consult the University's EU FAQs page for up-to-date information: www.cam.ac.uk/euNon-Compulsory Study Abroad: Although the core element of language immersion is the Year Abroad, students may wish to make use of some of their vacations during the other three years of their degree to travel to the countries where their chosen languages are spoken. Such travel is not a compulsory part of the course, though obviously beneficial in different ways. The cost of such travel is hugely variable, depending on the cost of getting to your destination, on living costs once you have arrived, and on what you choose to do. (Language undergrad abroad, for example, can involve extra expense; however, students who gain temporary paid employment abroad might, at the very least, cover their costs.) Unfortunately, the Faculty will not be in a position to financially support such travel but some colleges may be able to offer grants. August 2016© 2017 University of CambridgeCurrent undergraduatesCurrent StudentsInformation on the courses available to current undergraduates.> MML Part IA - List of Papers> MML Part IB - List of Papers> The Year Abroad> MML Part II - List of Papers> Linguistics Tripos - List of Papers© 2017 University of CambridgeHistory and Modern Languages TriposCurrent undergraduatesThe History and Modern Languages Tripos consists of three Parts: Part IA, Part IB and Part II.In 2017-18, the first year of operation, only Part IA will run.Students will offerTwo History papers, to be chosen from:For their language courses, students will take one of the following options:- Option A (ab initio) Russian: - Option B (post A Level or equivalent) languages: French, German, Russian, and Spanish. This will include the below examinations:© 2017 University of CambridgeLinguistics TriposCurrent undergraduatesThe Linguistics Tripos provides the opportunity to concentrate on language as a phenomenon and on the ways languages can be analysed.The one-year Part I provides a general introduction to all areas of linguistics, while the two-year Part II allows a degree of specialisation in particular areas.In both IIA and IIB there is a choice of lectures taught within and beyond the Department, the latter including the linguistics of particular languages. Part IIB includes an element of individual research in the form of a dissertation on a chosen topic.Students may also switch to Part II of the Linguistics Tripos after successful completion of a Part I in another Tripos. The Linguistics Tripos does not require detailed knowledge of a particular language, and so the course is accessible to those who have a general interest in and knowledge of language.The Tripos is divided into two parts, the examination for Part I normally being taken at the end of the first year, with examinations for Part IIA and IIB at the end of the second and third years. Final degree classification is based on the Part IIB result.FOUR papers, comprising:Paper Li.1 - Sounds and wordsPaper Li.2 - Structures and meaningsPaper Li.3 - Language, brain and societyPaper Li.4 - History and varieties of EnglishFOUR papers to be chosen from Section C and Section DFOUR papers, comprising:Paper Li.1 - Sounds and words †Paper Li.2 - Structures and meanings †TWO papers to be chosen from Section C and Section D† If this paper has already been taken in another tripos it cannot be taken again and another paper must be chosen from Sections C and D.THREE papers, comprising:Paper Li.5 - Linguistic TheoryTWO papers to be chosen from Section C and Section DA dissertation© 2017 University of CambridgeTransferable SkillsLinguistics TriposThe Linguistics course is designed to help students develop a range of skills. © 2017 University of CambridgeMarking CriteriaCurrent undergraduatesIn the following marking criteria higher grades should demonstrate not only the qualities specified for that class but also all the qualities expected of lower grades.© 2017 University of CambridgeModern and Medieval Languages TriposCurrent undergraduatesStudents combining Middle Eastern Studies with an MML language can find information about the structure of their course in the Faculty of AMES undergraduate handbook. Part IA is the first year of the MML course. Undergraduates who have obtained honours in another Tripos may take Part IA one year after doing so, but not later than their third year. Candidates for Part IA must offer two languages. With the exception of French and Latin (where only Option B is available), they must choose one of two options for each of their languages (A or B), at least one language must be offered as Option B. Option B papers are taught at a level of post-A2 (or equivalent). Option A papers are taught at beginners level. An undergraduate's College can often give advice concerning the possibility of taking up a new language, and can indicate what preliminary steps, before coming up to Cambridge, are desirable.To obtain honours in Part IA, a candidate must pass the examinations in both languages. A separate degree classification will be awarded for each language.The precise contents of each of these examinations will vary, as appropriate, between languages. Full details should be obtained from the Departments concerned.For full details on combining MML with Classics at Part IA and Part IB please see the MML with Classics page.The examination for each language in Part IA is as follows:Option A Modern LanguageOption B Modern LanguageDetails of papers to be taken when combining MML with Classics are available here.Part IB is the second year of the MML course. In order to be eligible to take Part IB, a candidate must have passed Part IA of the Modern and Medieval Languages Tripos or, obtained honours in another Honours Examination in the previous year and obtained prior approval of the Faculty Board of Modern and Medieval Languages. Optional papers taken for Part IB may not be repeated at Part II level, although they may provide the subject area for the year abroad project.The combination of papers taken for Part IB will depend upon the combination offered at Part IA.There will be a single degree classification for Part IB.For some scheduled papers there is the option to replace the examination paper with coursework - currently an Examination by Long Essay.Post- Option A + Option B:Post- Option B + Option B:Part II of the Tripos is a two-year course, comprising the year abroad and the final year in Cambridge.here is a single examination classification for Part II, which is the culmination of the work carried out during the two years.Candidates are normally required to reside abroad for a period of at least eight months and to undertake during that time either a course of study approved by the Faculty at a university, or an assistantship at a school, or some other form of employment approved by the Faculty. The period of residence abroad in a location or locations under conditions approved by the Faculty Board shall normally coincide with the academic year in Cambridge, beginning in October. Application forms, obtained from the Year Abroad Office must be submitted by the last day of the Full Michaelmas Term before the year to be spent abroad.The following academic work must be undertaken during the Year Abroad: the Year Abroad Project, preparation for the Part II oral examination, those studying abroad must achieve a certain number of ECTS points. The YAP shall normally be completed during a student's Year Abroad and shall not be worked on for any period of term-time residence in Cambridge during the Year Abroad, although some face-to-face supervision might take place.Immediately on return to Cambridge, students are required to submit a Certificate of Attendance and a Final Report on the Year Abroad.More information on the requirements can be obtained from the Year Abroad Office.The final mark for Part II will be based on the average for six papers (including the mark for the oral examination), as follows: © 2017 University of CambridgeLinguistics within the Modern and Medieval Languages TriposModern and Medieval Languages TriposAlthough it is not possible to take papers taught by the Linguistics Department in Part IA of the MML Tripos, the 'Structure and Varieties of [language x]' papers in some languages, and their equivalents in other departments, may provide the opportunity for preliminary study in linguistics. Consult the web pages of the relevant language department.MML Part IB candidates may take any of the four Section A (Part I) papers of the Linguistics Tripos. MML Part II candidates will be able to choose one or more of the papers in Section C of the Linguistics Tripos. Papers are listed in the MML schedule as Papers Li.6-Li.13, and will not count as 'borrowed' papers when taken within the MML Tripos.There is also the possibility of doing a Linguistics Project or a dissertation on a linguistics-based topic during the year abroadUnder the regulations for the MML Tripos it is possible to substitute a dissertation for one exam paper. Details can be found here. Please note that deadlines for this are different from those for the optional dissertation in the Linguistics Tripos. Candidates considering substituting a Linguistics paper should seek advice from the Department at an early stage, as we do not recommend a dissertation without prior experience relevant to the paper being substituted.You can switch to the (two-year) Part II Linguistics Tripos after Part IA. If you switch to the Linguistics Tripos at this point you will do two years in the Linguistics Tripos, Parts IIA and IIB.After MML IB, you can switch to the Linguistics Tripos for one year to concentrate exclusively on linguistics, taking the Linguistics Tripos Part IIA. Alternatively, you can remain within the MML Tripos to combine one or more linguistics papers with work on language skills and papers dealing with literature or with the history and structure of particular languages. Depending on funding, however, it may be possible to do two years in the Linguistics Tripos, taking Parts IIA and IIB.Since the MML year abroad is a component of MML Part II it is not, other than in exceptional circumstances, possible to switch to the Linguistics Tripos after the year abroad.If you are an undergraduate in another Faculty, you need to consider whether the arrangements (if any) for borrowing linguistics papers into Part II of your existing Tripos match your interests, or whether they would be better served by changing to Linguistics. If you do switch the possibility remains of taking one paper (one-year candidates) or two papers (two-year candidates) from your present Tripos if such papers are listed in Section D.© 2017 University of CambridgeSupervision GuidelinesCurrent undergraduatesThe aim of this document is to help ensure that you get the most out of the teaching and learning opportunities that the Cambridge supervision system provides. Some of it has been adapted from a similar set of guidelines produced by the Cambridge University Students Union.Some students can find the supervision system a little intimidating at first, or simply do not know what to expect from it. This document aims to lay out clearly what your rights as a supervisee are, but it is also intended to inform you of your responsibilities.Supervisions are a unique and highly effective form of teaching. You will usually see a supervisor on a fortnightly or weekly basis, sometimes one-to-one (one teacher, one student), but more commonly with between two and four students in each supervision.Please remember that supervisions are there to help you in your studies, and are not intended to be a formal test of your abilities. If you do feel intimidated in supervisions then something is wrong, whether it is the group dynamics, the teacher's expectations of you, or perhaps your own lack of confidence in your abilities. Whatever the problem, there will almost always be a way of putting it right, so long as you talk to someone about it (see below for specific ways of addressing problems). Supervisions can be, and should be, one of the most rewarding forms of teaching for most subjects, and you should not allow the opportunities they provide to be wasted!You have the right to expect:You will be expected to:The majority of supervisions run smoothly and provide a stimulating environment for learning. Things do occasionally go wrong, and they are not always the fault of either the supervisor or the student. Apart from obvious breaches of any of the points listed above, you may occasionally encounter one or more of the following:	Solution: talk to your supervisor privately at the end of a supervision, explain that you have things to say but that you do not feel you are being given an opportunity to say them; tell the other student(s) to be less pushy and to give you a chance to talk; if the problem persists, ask if it may be possible for groups to be rearranged so that you are supervised with someone else
	 	Solution: you are very probably undervaluing your own abilities, so explain what you are feeling to your supervisor. If you are finding the subject confusing or too difficult, then the supervisor needs to know this so that s/he can help you; if it is just a question of confidence, then equally the supervisor should be able to provide ways of encouraging you. Needless to say, careful preparation of the material to be discussed in the supervision can go a long way towards dispelling lack of confidence. Your supervisor is not there to judge you, but to help you
	 	Solution: ask your supervisor to give you a clear indication of how your work is progressing before the end-of-term report, and preferably in relation to each piece of work that you hand in. If the supervisor is not referring directly to the work you have done for the supervision, then ask him or her to do so, and ask him/her to provide suggestions for improving your work
	 	Solution: unless you have been remiss in doing work required of you (in which case the supervisor has every right to point out that you will not do well in the subject), then it is possible that your supervisor is not providing you with enough constructive suggestions for improvement, so ask him/her to provide such suggestionsYou should:Supervisions exist to provide flexibility of teaching, adapted to your own needs and requirements: once you are familiar with the system and the course you will find, especially in later years, that they provide the opportunity for you to set the agenda of your own studies. Make the most of this unique opportunity!© 2017 University of Cambridge3. Equivalence and Translation LossTranslation ToolkitThe discussion in Section 2 of SL-TL bias indicates that translation is an active process in which the translator needs to set up criteria for handling the relationship between the ST and the TT. It is also evident that in this process there is always likely to be some form of loss, even if that is not at the literal level but at the level of the conciseness of the expression:ST1: Value Added TaxSpanish: Impuesto sobre el Valor AñadidoItalian: Imposta sul valore aggiunto.  ST2: Blind in one eyeSpanish: tuertoItalian: guercioIn ST1 the source-language expression is more concise, whilst the two TTs include prepositional phrases, and the reverse is true of ST2. It may be that in translation the formal differences in these expressions could give rise to the loss on a play of words with thematic importance; for example, if ST2 were taken from a ST in which phrases formulated on the basis of 'eye' were linked to the theme of vision and perception.The challenge of translation then is to accept that the translator's job is not to eliminate loss but to reduce loss by making conscious decisions about which ST features to respect, and which to sacrifice. This will be the focus of the rest of the tool kit.Compromise & CompensationCompromise arises from the need to palliate the effects of translation loss. When there is inevitable, unacceptable compromise then there is a need for compensation. Compensation is a matter of choice and decision; it is the reduction of unacceptable translation loss through the calculated introduction of less unacceptable loss. Translation loss can usefully be compared by analogy to energy loss since, in a machine, loss of energy comes about with any use or transfer of energy. In any process of translation there will necessarily be some loss. Engineers see energy loss merely as a problem which they must confront by designing ever more efficient machines, in which energy loss is reduced. Translation loss is by analogy any non-replication in the TT of ST features, including the addition of information or detail. The analogy is intended to suggest that translators should concentrate on controlling, and channelling loss. One means by which loss can be controlled is through compensation. The following notes aim to help suggest guidelines for judging when it is necessary, and techniques for handling it.Categories of CompensationCompensation in Kind is making explicit what is implicit, or implicit the explicit; this may be done through using a similar technique as that found in the ST, or by displacing the technique to another part of the TT. Consider the following example:ST Obelix: Pourquoi parlez-vous à l'envers?Jolitorax: Je demande votre pardon?TT Obelix: ¿Por qué habla al revés?Buentorax: Le ruego me perdone.
In the French ST the comic effect derives in the main from the fact that the answer Jolitorax gives is a calque in French of the English idiom, 'I beg your pardon', where a French speaker would expect, Plaît-il? or Comment?; that is, it translates the English words literally but attempts to respect French grammar. (See Section 4 for a discussion of Calque.) This ties in with the characterization of Jolitorax. In the Spanish TT Buentorax's reply is also a calque of the English idiom where a Spanish speaker would expect, ¿Cómo? or ¿Qué?. However, this may not be as obvious a source of humour to the Spanish audience, whose main second-language has been French and not English, at least until quite recently. The translators compensate in kind for this possible loss in that fact the Buentorax's answer is also a phrase stereotyped in business correspondence, meaning, 'Please forgive...', and which is also a joke about appropriate language use. Buentorax's answer is humorous because of its incongruousness in speech.Since a translator may need to make explicit something implicit in the ST, he or she may need to opt for a narrower or broader term to do this:TT1 Today there may be only 1000 big pandas left in the wild which still remain in the wild state, restricted to certain mountain areas in China's provinces...(Literal TT from Chinese ST)TT2 Today there may be no more than 1000 giant pandas left in the wild, restricted to a few mountain strongholds in the Chinese Provinces...(Publ. TT from Chinese ST; Baker 1992: 28)TT1 is a literal translation from a Chinese ST. The translator compensates in kind by particularizing with a noun in TT2, 'strongholds', whose frame of reference is narrower than TT1's 'areas', thereby creating a more plausible TT.Compensation by Splitting or MergingCompensation by splitting or merging tends to be employed where no single corresponding TL term for a ST word exists or when a ST phrase or concept corresponds to a single TT word. It necessarily implies the addition or removal of information by the translator. For example:TT3 The Chinese people have already made substantial efforts to protect the giant panda, which is considered to be a treasure. However, we are at the crucial moment when the panda is in the condition of life-death-existence-extinction.(Literal TT from Chinese ST) TT4 The Chinese people have already done a lot to protect the panda, which is considered to be a national treasure. Nevertheless, we are at a critical time for this species.(Publ. TT from Chinese ST; Baker 1992: 58)Once again TT3 is a literal translation from Chinese, and TT4 is the translator's published TT. It is an excellent example of merging. Chinese has a typical fixed expression which is very emphatic, 'in the condition of life-death-existence-extinction', and this has been merged with the idea of 'crucial moment' to produce the collocation 'critical time', where critical carries with it associations of being near death and thus under threat (e.g. 'on the critical list'). Although there is some loss in the conciseness of expression in TT4, it conveys the core sense of the ST extremely well.As a general rule of thumb:Addition of information is acceptable when:1.ST confirms the accuracy of what is added;
2. the detail is important to the ST; and,
3. the information cannot otherwise be recovered.Removal of information is acceptable when:1. the detail is insignificant; or
2. it can be recovered from other parts of the TT.© 2017 University of CambridgeTranslation ToolkitCurrent undergraduatesThe aim of this web-based course on translation is to provide students preparing to translate for the first time, or to undertake a Year Abroad Translation Project with an emergency tool kit for approaching translation. The emphasis here is on translation from a second language to English; but the observations hold true for translating in the reverse direction. The Tool Kits are not a history of translation practice and theory, or a theory of translation.Students considering a translation project, but who have not yet made a firm decision may also find the Tool Kits helpful since:The Tool Kits are based on the Thinking Translation series, published by Routledge, for which there are books on Arabic, French, German, Italian, and Spanish; I have also made extensive use of Mona Baker's In Other Words, and almost all examples come from these indispensable manuals.The opening premise is that translation is broadly similar to many other things that everyone does every day, such as working with everyday sign systems, and in interpreting and responding appropriately to such sign systems, and to other people. As a result of this, translation is seen as a language-based skill that can be practiced and improved through a strategic approach. Every linguist can translate, and all of us can become better translators by becoming aware of the processes involved, and by approaching translation exercises strategically and methodically. © 2017 University of Cambridge1. Translation as a ProcessTranslation ToolkitTake a look at each of these images, and consider what they are; what they mean and imply, and what their associations are.          In each case the interpretative act you carry out is strongly akin to translation. This is most evident in the way we teach children to read clocks: 'What does the clock say?', 'The big hand is pointing to 12 so that's o'clock, and the little hand is pointing so 6, so that's six o'clock. It says six o'clock.' This is often referred to as intersemiotic translation; that is, translating from one sign system to another.If you consider translation in this light, you can see that it is a process that involves comprehension and reaction. In everyday communicative situations, effectiveness in this process is measured by practical or verbal situational responses; such as in responding to a suggestion to sit down in an interview, in giving and following instructions, or in filling in forms correctly. Consider the court case in which the Judge asks, 'And was it in the fracas that you were shot?', to which the witness responds, 'No, M'lud. It was between the fracas and the navel.' This example shows the importance of understanding or decoding the message content in communication. The witness is intimidated by the formality of the court setting, and assumes that the unfamiliar word, 'fracas', is a polite euphemism. The first step in effective translation is precisely this: ensuring an accurate grasp of the content of the material to be translated (hereafter the source text or ST), and acting upon it effectively. To sum up, translation is a two-part process, involving comprehension and interpretation.It is often in everyday conversation that we carry out the activities most like translation, such as in summarizing verbal interactions. Compare:Dialogue 1Policeman: There's been an accident ahead, Madam - I'm afraid you'll have to turn left down St Mary's Lane here; the road's blocked.Jill: Oh, OK. Thanks.Jack: What did he say? Jill: Turn left.Dialogue 2Policeman: There's been an accident ahead, Madam - I'm afraid you'll have to turn left down St Mary's Lane here; the road's blocked.Jill: Oh, OK. Thanks.Jack: What did he say?Jill: Turn left. Some twit has jack-knifed and blocked the High Street. That's the second time this month. The street's just too narrow for a thing that size.In dialogue 1, Jill merely sums up the message content of what the policeman says. In dialogue 2, she adds further explanatory information of her own, which she has deduced from the context. The essence of the message content is 'turn left', but like all translations other versions exist (such as, 'Go down there'). Her response is affected by the situation, which - in turn - inflects the form and reception of the message:The policeman's words convey further information which she leaves out. He mollifies her by addressing her as 'madam'; he gives an explanation for his request, 'There's been...'; modalizes it, 'I'm afraid you'll have to...', to increase its politeness; adds local colour which would appeal to a sense of citizenship, using the adverb, 'here', to explain the localization.In each case Jill's activities are very similar to processes involved in translation, and could be described as intralingual translation; that is, the re-expression of the message conveyed in particular form of words in a language by another form of words in the same language. The first dialogue is an example of gist translation, akin to the summary or resumé exercises you may have carried out intralingually as part of your second-language learning. The second is a form of exegetical translation, in which the translator fills in details that he or she regards as necessary for the target audience of the finished translation. This is like the annotation of editions of some of the texts you have studied. An example is G. K. Hunter's 1967 edition of Shakespeare's Macbeth.From G. K. Hunter's 1967 edition of Shakespeare's Macbeth
[comments follow in square brackets]:
 Doubtful it stood,
  As two spent swimmers that do cling together
  And choke their art. The merciless Macdonald -
  Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
  The multiplying villainies of nature
  Do swarm upon him - from the Western Isles
  Of kerns and galloglasses is supplied ... 
 choke their art: make impossible the art of swimming
[exegetical rephrasing, which conveys only the gist with the loss of the image of choking]To that: as if to that end
[exegetical rephrasing, explaining the elliptical wording] multiplying ... upon him: hosts of rebels join him like noxious insects swarming [exegetical rephrasing, transforming metaphor to simile thus simplifying the image]kerns and galloglasses: light and heavy-armed Celtic levies
[virtually synonymous rephrasing for readers unfamiliar with medieval Irish and Scottish armies, levies may be inaccurate given galloglasses are mercenaries]
These processes of rephrasing are processes that we carry out or encounter on a daily basis without further consideration, and they are very similar to translation. In fact, they are used as exercises in the development of mother tongue, and second languages in courses for professional translators but not in undergraduate degrees:Great stress is laid on improving foreign language proficiency, but excellence in the mother tongue - the translator's target language - is, quite wrongly, taken for granted(Rommel 1987: 12; apud Higgins, Hervey & Haywood).
It may be assumed that the emphasis laid on English language essay-writing skills in Cambridge means that this in not the case here; however, the importance of considering English carefully (whether as the source language of the translation or as the target language) has been repeatedly emphasized by our external examiners (extracts from reports from 1997-1999):You will need to make use of English-language tools for translators, many of which are web based, including:Consider this parodic intralingual translation by Alistair Cooke, who broadcast Letter from America for BBC Radio 4 for many years, of 'And God said, Let there be light: and there was light' (Genesis 1:3) into the inelegant and over-wordy modern English currently being used by American politicians:'The Supreme Being mandated the illumination of the Universe and this directive was enforced forthwith' (Alistair Cooke, 'Best Speaker of English', Radio 4, 1998). © 2017 University of Cambridge2. Translation as a ProductTranslation ToolkitSo far we have dealt with the process of translation; but a translation can also be viewed as a product of this process. In that sense it can be seen as bearing a relationship of proximity or distance from the source text.Compare the following example, which presents literal and free translations of a stock Chinese conversation between two strangers:
 
The literal translation sounds too formal in the target language, English, by using the honorific title Sir. Also the kind of polite questions exchanged vary a great deal from those used at a first meeting between speakers of English, and might even be regarded as too personal, and therefore rather rude.The literal translation is source-language biased, and the free translation is target-language biased. How free or literal a translation or target text (hereafter TT) needs to be a matter for careful consideration since there are arguments in favour of each approach. The decision often depends to some degree on who the target audience is likely to be, and the purpose of the translation. If we take the examples above, the literal translation might be more helpful for a student of linguistics who wishes to compare the politeness levels of strangers meeting for the first time across a range of languages. The free translation would work better in a novel intended for a general reader with very little knowledge of everyday life in China. A student learning conversational Chinese might only need to know the culturally equivalent sense of the phrases he or she uses, but a student of culture would be likely to be aware of both the literal and the free sense. Cultural issues in translation will be the main focus of Section 4: Cultural Issues in Translation: Calque.It may be useful to consider the relationship of source text (hereafter ST) to TT as a sliding scale: For example, one student reporting the reaction of her supervision partner to an anthology of short stories in Italian, remarks: Le piace molto la novella del Boccaccio.
 InterlinealTo her pleases much the story of the Boccaccio.Interlineal translation is not represented on the sliding scale, above, and is a form of extreme source language (SL) bias. It conveys the literal level of the words, and attempts to represent the SL's syntax. It is typically used by linguists to discuss structure and syntactical difference, and is a highly technical practice seldom undertaken by the majority of translators.LiteralThe story of Boccaccio pleases her greatly.Literal translation uses the literal level of the words, but respects the TL's use of syntax. The adoption of TL grammar produces a translation that may be appropriate in some contexts, but which sounds too formal and, in this case, slightly stilted. Some people might describe it as 'tranlationese', and it is an example of calque, discussed in Section 4: Cultural Issues in Translation.FaithfulShe likes the story by Boccaccio very much.Faithful translation takes account of the literal level of the words, and also respects the TL's use of syntax. Here there is a necessary degree of grammatical transposition: some of the ST parts of speech and grammatical categories are altered to fit in better with TL expectations. Here, the impersonal becomes an active, 'She likes', the possessive, 'of..', is replaced with 'by'. This translation is more plausible, given the context, than the literal translation but it is still a little formal.BalancedShe really likes the Boccaccio story.In the balanced translation, two further grammatical transpositions are made: the phrase 'very much' is replaced with the single adverb 'really', following the pronoun 'she'. The possessive has been removed. There are a number of grammatical transpositions but they are all unremarkable and acceptable: it is more convincing in the context than the two more SL-biased TTs.IdiomatizingShe's mad about the BoccacioThe idiomatizing translation respects the ST message content but tends to use TL idioms (fixed figurative expressions whose meanings cannot be deduced from the literal meaning; i.e. football is not my cup of tea). Idiomatizing is not wholly synonymous with idiomatic; the faithful and balanced TTs (above) are idiomatic but not idiomatizing.FreeShe thinks the Boccaccio's ace.Free translation respects the ST's message content. This example is also heavily idiomatizing.It is essential to note that the degrees of freedom are quite fluid: all are open to query, and other TTs could always be suggested. Context often determines what the optimal translation may be. As with gist translation and exegetical rephrasing it is tempting to imagine an ideal mid-point which adds and omits nothing but differences in form of expression and cultural content mean that this is almost impossible. There may be instances in which there is very little choice at all, such as with SL idioms, proverbs of fossilized expressions; for example:Come up with a list of TTs for the following expressions, and consider their place on the TL-SL scale, discussed above:© 2017 University of CambridgeWhy Study Italian at Cambridge?Home           Absolutely not! Here are a few reasons why Italian is a beginner’s friendly language:Independent language study is an essential and expected part of the language learning experience. Undergraduate students will be able to access a wide range of language and language related material to assist their independent learning on Moodle, the VLE in use for all papers taught in the Faculty. Students will be able to register for and access Moodle soon after their confirmation of placement in early September.The University Language Centre on the Downing Site also provides a wide range of Italian language learning materials, including live access to the Italian television.                                                                     If you want to buy Italian books for yourself, remember that copies of some of the principal texts on the syllabus are available from the Departmental Office. Both Heffers and Waterstone’s bookshops in Cambridge stock Italian books. Far wider selections are available from specialist London bookshops such as The Italian Bookshop, The European Bookshop and Grant and Cutler.You can also order books online from the following Italian bookstores:At a less formal level you will be able to maximise your contact with Italian life, language and culture by supporting the student-run Italian Society, which holds regular social and cultural events, ranging from screenings of Italian-language films to samplings of Italian food and wine, to producing theatre productions in Italian. For more information, go to the stall at the Freshers’ Fair at the beginning of the Michaelmas term or check its Facebook page.It is clearly important to spend as much time as possible in Italy during the first two years of study of the Tripos. Financial help for this is normally available from Colleges.The Italian Department has a long standing affiliation with the British Institute in Florence, a language school that offers high-quality language and cultural courses throughout the year and organises a tailor-made course for Cambridge Part IA students in the Easter vacation (at preferential rates).For information about a vacation course in language or culture in Italy, all the brochures received by the Department are available on the wall by the notice board on the 2nd floor North landing of the Raised Faculty Building. When selecting a destination, it is important to consider carefully where to go in Italy. The most popular destinations offer obvious attractions (and a very wide range of courses), but it may be harder to meet Italians there than in other less tourist Italian places. Dott. Domenici is available to discuss options at any stage of the Academic Year.Over the course of the Academic Year there are opportunities to meet with Final-year students returning from their year abroad in Italy. They often have useful suggestions and contacts of activities available in Italy.The possibilities are endless! Cambridge has one of the highest postgraduate employment rates in the country. Graduates in Italian have been hugely successful in the many careers open to arts graduates such as law, media, arts and cultural organisations, teaching in schools or in academia, finance, industry, civil service, translation and international aid. In many of these areas, linguistic competence is a highly desirable skill. Every year a number of our students move to work abroad.Please click here to view the Faculty's webpage for prospective Undergraduate students for information on Open Days, course costs, what it's like at Cambridge and much more!*Currently being updated*© 2017 University of CambridgeStudyingThinking about your Year AbroadMost study placements in the EU are with Erasmus. A current list of Erasmus exchange places is provided in your Year Abroad pack and in the Erasmus section of the webpage.> Find out more about the Erasmus scheme from the European Commission's Education and Training pageshttps://www.britishcouncil.org/study-work-create/opportunity/study-abroad/erasmus © 2017 University of CambridgeUniversities AbroadStudyingUse the links in the following pages to research universities in the following Universities Worldwide list by country> Countries A - C> Countries D - I> Countries L - P> Countries R - V© 2017 University of CambridgeA - CUniversities AbroadArgentinaUniversities in Argentina AustriaUniversities in Austria BelgiumUniversities in France, Belgium and SwitzerlandUniversities in Belgium BoliviaUniversities in Bolivia BrazilUniversities in Brazil CanadaUniversities in Canada ChileUniversities in Chile ColombiaUniversities in Colombia Costa RicaUniversities in Costa Rica CubaUniversities in Cuba Czech RepublicUniversities in Czech Republic© 2017 University of CambridgeD - IUniversities AbroadDominican RepublicUniversities in Dominican Republic EcuadorUniversities in Ecuador El SalvadorUniversities in El Salvador FranceUniversities in France, Belgium and SwitzerlandUniversities in France GermanyUniversities in Germany GreeceUniversities in Greece GuatemalaUniversities in Guatemala HondurasUniversities in Honduras HungaryUniversities in Hungary ItalyUniversities in Italy© 2017 University of CambridgeL - PUniversities AbroadLuxembourgUniversities in Luxembourg MexicoUniversities in Mexico The NetherlandsUniversities in Netherlands NicaraguaUniversities in Nicarugua PanamaUniversities in Panama ParaguayUniversities in Paraguay PeruUniversities in Peru PolandUniversities in Poland PortugalUniversities in Portugal Puerto RicoUniversities in Puerto Rico© 2017 University of CambridgeR - VUniversities AbroadRussiaUniversities in Russia SpainUniversidades - EspanaUniversities in Spain SwitzerlandUniversities in France, Belgium and SwitzerlandUniversities in Switzerland UruguayUniversities in Uruguay VenezuelaUniversities in Venezuela© 2017 University of Cambridge