
    Admission to the Ph.D. program in the Study of Religion at Harvard is very competitive: typically only 5-6% of all applicants are admitted. Basic requirements, as a minimum, include a bachelor's degree, or its equivalent, with an undergraduate record of outstanding quality - a previous master's degree is not required, but it is the rare, exceptional student who is admitted without one. Similarly, while a previous major in the field of religion is not required, the applicant's background in this and related subjects is a critical consideration.Applicants must submit: current GRE scores; TOEFL scores if a non-native English speaker unless the applicant holds a B.A. degree (or equivalent degree) from an English-speaking university; note that for the Ph.D. in Religion, the minimum TOEFL scores are 620 for the paper-based test, or 105 for the Internet-based test. In addition, applicants must submit an abstract of courses, three letters of recommendation, a Statement of Purpose outlining their proposed project, and a writing sample of no more than 10 pages (2500 words).The annual application deadline to the Study of Religion is in mid-December. Please see the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for the exact deadline for your year of application. If you anticipate needing assistance with any portion of the application, please contact the Admissions Office well in advance of the deadline. We do not offer rolling admissions and we do not offer on-line study programs, also known as "distance learning" programs.Please note the research fields listed on our site are the current fields of study. The Committee on the Study of Religion admits students to the doctoral program who have clearly defined intellectual interests. Applicants should choose only one area of specialization from the list. There may be cases where students' interests span two fields: in such a case a student - for example, interested in Buddhism in America - may be referred to readers in two fields, in this case Buddhist Studies and Religions of the Americas. Applicants must clearly explain their interdisciplinary interests in their statement of purpose and also state which field would be their primary field.  If you find your particular field of interest is not on the GSAS site please contact us.All doctoral applicants are expected to have foundational language skills needed for primary research (textual or ethnographic) in the area of specialization (Greek, Hebrew, Latin, Sanskrit, Arabic, Chinese, etc.) at the time of application. In addition, admitted students must demonstrate reading competence in two modern languages of secondary scholarship relevant to their course of study. These languages are determined in consultation with an adviser after admission to the program.  All admitted students receive the same financial aid: five years of tuition and fee assistance plus stipend, including summer stipends after years one through four. The stipend in years three and four is primarily underwritten by Teaching Fellowships. The fifth year of funding is intended for a student's final year in order to complete the dissertation.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	A full list of Undergraduate Courses for 2017-18 with descriptions can be found here. This list is updated as new courses are added.
Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The program is highly competitive – we can accept only 5-7% of applicants to the PhD. For that reason, we look for the most capable applicants, with excellent credentials in all areas.While a master's degree is not a requirement, it is a distinct advantage in the application process, and in fact, most students admitted to the Ph.D. program have already earned master's degrees. The background gained from one or two years of study beyond the undergraduate level allows a student to enter a doctoral program prepared to do the advanced work required for a Ph.D. Students with an undergraduate record of high quality and extensive academic preparation relevant to their statement of purpose may be admitted with only a B.A.It is very important that you write a clear and informative statement of purpose. You should be able to talk in some detail about your academic interests, what led you to them, and what you envision the focus of your program at Harvard would be. As much as possible, you should familiarize yourself with the faculty and resources at Harvard in your proposed area of study. Reviewers of your application will look for a good "fit" between what you want to do and what Harvard has to offer.Academic preparation is also extremely important, and reviewersAll admissions decisions are made without knowing the financial need of the applicants, so that financial status plays no role in the assessment of one's suitability for admission. Please see the current standard funding package on the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences website.Yes. Once you are a student, you are eligible to apply for a range of fellowships at various stages in your program, for example, summer language study grants, traveling fellowships for research abroad, other research grants, and dissertation completion fellowships.As part of the funding offered to admitted students, teaching fellowships are made available beginning in year three. Teaching experience is integral to the doctoral program. Teaching Fellowship positions are most often found through the Divinity School and in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Additional teaching opportunities include work as junior and senior tutors with small groups or individuals majoring in religion, as well as work with HarvardX and the Harvard Extension School. Every effort is made to give students the best information for securing these teachingProgram guidelines stipulate that students should complete their degrees in seven years. Some students may complete their doctoral programs sooner. Various factors, such as language study or research abroad, will affect the length of a student's program.Yes. Applications that do not have GRE scores are considered incomplete. Refer to the GSAS Application Instructions for more details on submitting scores.When applying to the Doctoral Program, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences requires that you upload a copy of your transcript from each college/university attended with your online application. An official transcript showing the conferral of the undergraduate degree is required to register in the Graduate School. An official transcript that differs from the application copy may bar an admitted candidate from registering.Harvard offers a coordinated JD/PhD Program which is designed for students interested in completing interdisciplinary work and is founded on the belief that students’ legal studies and their arts and sciences graduate studies can be mutually enriched through this pursuit. Students completing the coordinated program receive a JD from Harvard Law School (HLS) and a PhD from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). It is expected that these students will be strong candidates for teaching posts at law schools and in arts and sciences programsIncoming new graduate students receive their stipend disbursement on orientation day. Returning graduate students are issued stipend the first of September for the fall term. If you have not set up direct deposit, the check will be mailed on that date.Faculty advisors can review instruction here for lifting a registration hold.The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences offers accommodations to students who are anticipating the birth or adoption of a child. You may review the policy here: https://gsas.harvard.edu/student-life/harvard-resources/parental-accommodation-and-financial-supportThe GSAS made some changes to their funding structure for doctoral students entering 2016-17 and beyond. These allow for some deferrals of teaching fellowships to later G years and other enhancements. Read more.Please go to "Apply PhD" and follow instructions on applying to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University.For applicants to the Ph.D. program in the Study of Religion, a writing sample is required. The 10-page limit/2500-word limit refers to the main body of the paper and does not include bibliographies.GSAS made some recent changes which allow students to shift their priority years to any combination within G3, G4, G5, and G6 years. This allows students in the Study of Religion to do research work earlier in their program, if they have secured alternative sources of funding. Read the guidance here: https://gsas.harvard.edu/news/stories/gsas-implements-enhancements-funding-packages.
	To keep current on the unionization of graduate students at Harvard, please refer to the page managed by the Office of the Provost. Please note that the provost also sends direct communications to graduate students, faculty, and other members of the Harvard community.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    For comprehensive student academic information, please refer to student record in the advising section of the SIS found at my.harvard.edu.You may submit forms by email, mail or fax. If you are a visitor, the Student & Visitor Reimbursement Form and a W-9 are required.*Paper clips please - thank you! Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Students who apply to do a Readings and Research class to fulfill the language requirement should first have:a. attempted to prepare for the exam by completing course work at Harvard; andb. attempted the qualifying exam and been unsuccessful.To apply to do a Readings and Research course, a student first must consult with and have permission of:a. her/his advisor; andb. the Director of Language Studies; andc. the proposed instructor of the course.After this initial approval, and before registering for the course, the student should submit a list of readings and copies thereof to the Director of Language Studies and the instructor for approval. It is the student's responsibility to collect the readings, in consultation with the instructor and the Director of Language Studies if necessary.After completion of the readings, the instructor will evaluate and report on the student's performance. The certification process entails three steps (a-c below).a. The instructor administers an exam (written or oral) evaluating the student's ability to translate.b. The instructor submits the results to the Director of Language Studies for certification.The results may take one of two forms:1. corrected translations; or,2. a brief letter describing the translation and the testing method.c. After receiving the material described above, the Director of Language Studies informs the Th.D. administrator that the student has completed the requirement successfully.February 15, 1999 For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Any student who wishes to replace one ancient language for another; take a leave of absence; or take extra time beyond the time allowed for languages, studying for Generals, preparing the Dissertation prospectus, or writing the Dissertation must petition for an extension of time. Petitions for extensions of time should include: 1) a summary of progress, 2) if applicable, an indication of any circumstances that have made progress difficult, 3) a probable time-table for completion of the requirement, and 4) the countersignature of your advisor. Though petitions need to be addressed to the Director of Th.D. Studies, they must be given to Kathryn Kunkel, the Th.D. Administrator. Petitions are reviewed by the Director of Th.D. Studies and occasionally may be brought up before the Doctoral Subcommittee. Please remember that petitions are not automatically approved.N.B. Th.D. students who wish to take a one-year leave of absence should also consult the Registrar in order to review her or his account and to clarify such matters as tuition credit and insurance coverage. Please consult the Divinity School Handbook for further details. Students should, of course, also discuss this step with their advisor and with the Th.D. Administrator.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Should a student fail any part or all of his or her General Examinations, the student would normally be required to re-take all the exams unless exemptions from certain areas were recommended by the examining committee and approved by the Doctoral Subcommittee. Should the examiners wish to exempt certain areas, they must provide a rationale for their decision in writing to the Doctoral Subcommittee. Likewise, an examining committee must provide a written rationale to the Doctoral Subcommittee for any recommendation that a student re-take an exam in a different form (e.g., writing a paper in lieu of re-taking an exam).A student may re-take General Examinations once and must re-take a failed exam in the next exam period. A student must also keep the same examiners (where possible) and the same bibliographies.This written report must be produced as soon as possible after the decision in order to provide clear and timely information to the student and to the Doctoral Subcommittee. If the Doctoral Subcommittee denies the exemption or the request that a student re-take an exam in a different form, the examining committee may appeal to the Standing Committee.Any recommendation to exempt a student from re-taking one or more of the General Examinations, or to have the student re-take an exam in a different form, must be made by the examining committee as a whole.The categories of ‘bar’ and ‘no bar’ shall no longer be used. No student will be barred from re-taking failed General Examinations once. Should members of an examining committee feel a student would be best served by not re-taking the exams, they should communicate this to the student and explore options with him or her.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    At Harvard, advanced programs of study involving religion may be arranged under many auspices. The Ph.D. under this Committee is in "The Study of Religion". Some candidates will find that they can best pursue their interests by becoming a candidate for the Ph.D. in such departments as Anthropology, Classics, History, East Asian or Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, Philosophy, or Sanskrit and Indian Studies. Likewise, some candidates may find the program for the M.T.S., M.Div., or Th.M. degree in the Harvard Divinity School more suitable for focusing their interests and strengthening their preparation for doctoral studies. The Committee reserves the right to advise the applicant to seek training in one of these alternative programs if in its judgment such a course would be in the applicant's interest.Fields of study, admissions, and requirements differ; applicants should indicate in their submission which field will be their primary specialization. If you indicate one of the fields marked below by an asterisk*, please specify the religious traditions(s) and/or approximate geographical range(s) or temporal period(s) from which the primary sources for your focus of inquiry will be drawn. You may also propose comparative work within any of these fields.For descriptions and related faculty, please refer to the corresponding field page under the Research section.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    General Examinations are customarily typed, though you may hand-write your exam. All editing and proof-reading must be completed during the exam time. It is your responsibility to ensure that the computer being used is in good working condition. In the event of a malfunction, the administrator, in consultation with the your faculty advisor, will make all possible efforts for a re-examination as soon as possible. You should check your computer's functionality and battery life well in advance and save work often during the exam period. If you are using an uncommon software please consult with the program administrator a minimum of two weeks prior to the first exam to make any necessary arrangements.You must sign an honor pledge before taking the general exams, stating that you will use the computer for word processing only (provided by the program administrator on exam day).At the end of each exam period, you will email your exam to the program administrator, who will confirm receipt and provide copies to your examiners. Exams will be retained as part of your student record in the Study of Religion office.If you plan to hand-write your exam, please consult with the program administrator at least two weeks prior to the first exam. For handwritten exams, you must first return the original exam to the Study of Religion office at the conclusion of each exam period. A photocopy will be made for you to convert to a typed format. Each exams must be converted and returned within 24 hours to the office, unless other arrangements have been made. No changes may be made from the original exam, including spelling, grammar, capitalization, and content. The typed version will be checked against the original.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    If the student's advisor agrees,  a doctoral candidate for either the PhD or ThD may submit a paper between 20 and 30 pages in length in lieu of a fourth (Ph.D) or third (Th.D) exam, namely the special field exam. Intent to write such a paper, with a bibliography and brief description, should be submitted together with other General Exam bibliographies six months prior to the exam period. An updated bibliography should be submitted with the paper. The chosen topic should anticipate the expected focus of the dissertation. This option may only be exercised with the approval of the student’s academic advisor, and the paper should be developed in consultation with the advisor. It must be original work prepared for this purpose; work previously submitted for any other purpose (including a course, colloquium, or presentation) is not acceptable.The paper must be submitted by 5:00 p.m. to the program administrator at the Study of Religion offices in the Barker Center, not later than one month prior to the first exam date (e.g., if the first exam would have been given on April 21, the paper would be due by March 21, or the nearest day to that date on which the office is open.) This is a non-negotiable deadline. If a paper is not submitted by the deadline, the student must sit for the exam based on the original bibliography. The submitted paper will be copied and distributed to the general examination readers and discussed at the oral examination along with the other three exams.This option has been approved in the past on an ad hoc basis for a number of students. Most have found it to be an excellent way to begin work on their dissertation topic, receive meaningful feedback from a number of faculty at an early stage in this process, and often to curtail the ‘lag’ time after generals and before submitting the prospectus by providing a strong intellectual link between these stages in the program.Approved at the Doctoral Sub-committee meetingDecember 7, 2007These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Prospective students interested in doctoral work in religion may only apply for the Ph.D. program in the Study of Religion at Harvard University.The Th.D. program of the Harvard Divinity School was inaugurated in 1914 and the final cohort was admitted in 2014. The Committee on the Study of Religion continues to administer those students enrolled in the Th.D. program. The Th.D. program emphasizes the study of the literatures, languages, practices, and institutions that shape religious and theological traditions and thought from a range of methodological and theoretical perspectives. Although the Western humanistic traditions in their histories and their encounters with other cultures and religions, past and present, form the historic basis for the Th.D. at Harvard Divinity School, the program also offers the opportunity for students to engage in the study of varieties of geographical/historical complexes and religious traditions.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Harvard’s concentration in the Comparative Study of Religion is a vibrant community comprised of dynamic, devoted students and the nation’s most distinguished teaching faculty in the study of religion.  Students interact regularly with faculty and graduate students who share their interests. The program provides students with an understanding of the religious traditions of the world through study of sacred texts and rituals; philosophy, literature and theology; and the lived experiences and history of participants in the tradition.  Courses engage life’s biggest questions including the meaning of life and death, humanity and divinity, good and evil, sacrifice and community.  Course work exposes students to central concepts in the field such as god(s), ritual, gender, authority, orthodoxy, scripture and prophecy.  Anthropological, historical, philosophical, phenomenological, sociological and literary approaches open religion to closer analysis and deeper understanding.Students consistently rate our concentration and courses very highly.  Tutorials are small, tailored to student interests and designed to develop and refine students’ ability to analyze texts closely and to write coherently.  Close attention to excellent writing--through drafting, comments and revising--is a priority in our tutorial program. Concentrators pursue a wide range of careers after graduation, including business, law, medicine, politics, public service, scholarship, creative art and teaching.  Recent graduates are studying at Harvard Law School, teaching with Teach for America, pursuing graduate work at Cambridge University, practicing medicine and starring in television roles.  Our students consistently report back to us that the understanding of religion, the critical thinking skills, and the refined writing ability they gained in this concentration have been significantly important in making sense of current events and global politics, and in succeeding in their workplaces and local communities.  Most of our graduates have a strong interest in service to their communities and are committed to working in their chosen profession to make the world a better place. The Undergraduate section of this site reflects the information found in the Undergraduate Handbook, which is the standard reference work for requirements, rules, and advising procedures in the Study of Religion and it updated annually. Faculty advisers and tutorial leaders will assume students are familiar with it. Please read its contents carefully.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-tools*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetThese forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.It may be possible to substitute other traditions or themes depending on faculty and course offerings.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Upon formal approval of the prospectus, the student commences the writing of the dissertation. Following the approval of the prospectus, one chapter per year of the dissertation must be submitted to the advisor. The length of dissertations is limited to a maximum of approximately 75,000 words or 300 pages, exclusive of bibliography. Permission to exceed this length may be granted by the Doctoral Subcommittee or the Chairman at the request of the dissertation advisor. Once the dissertation is completed and approved by the advisor, the degree candidate is examined orally by a committee of at least three faculty readers, two of whom must be members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. In practice, any member of HDS faculty who is eligible to serve on the Standing Committee in the Study of Religion is authorized to sign Dissertation Acceptance Certificates as FAS members. Any faculty members from other schools at Harvard who have held or currently hold appointments in the CSR are authorized to sign Dissertation Acceptance Certificates as FAS members.Please review this comprehensive guide to degree submission, form of dissertation, and electronic submisssion to Registrar: Dissertations: A Guide to Preparing and Submitting Your Dissertation.The entire Ph.D. program should not exceed seven years. Students who do not complete the degree in seven years must petition the Committee for an extension of time in the program. Petitions may be made only for one year at a time. In such a petition, the student and the dissertation advisor must present evidence of reasonable and substantial progress as well as a timetable for completion of the dissertation. Extensions will not be granted beyond the tenth year.When you are within reach of completing your dissertation draft, your dissertation advisor should write a letter to the Standing Committee proposing an examining committee. The advisor’s letter should be received at least one week prior to the Standing Committee meeting at which it would be considered. Please check the website calendar for meeting dates of the Standing Committee or contact the office of the Study of Religion for dates in order that you and your advisor may plan the timing of submission and defense. The final dissertation draft must be submitted directly to each reader and to the Study of Religion Office. Once the examining committee is in place, a date for the dissertation defense will be set. In anticipating a defense date, keep in mind that your readers may need up to six weeks of reading time. You will need to prepare a dissertation abstract, not to exceed 350 words, prior to the dissertation defense. This document is required for publication in Dissertation Abstracts International.Prior to your defense, the Program Administrator will prepare and deliver to the Chair of your committee your Dissertation Acceptance Certificate (DAC). If no revisions are required, or as soon as any and all revisions are completed, and all examiners have signed the DAC, it should be returned to the Study of Religion office. The completed DAC will be scanned for the student and for the office; the original will be delivered to the Registrar’s Office.Upon submission of the electronic copy of the dissertation, you will be required to submit a signed University Microfilms International form (included in the Registrar’s online submission tool).Degree Applicant Deadlines - The submission and application dates are generally the same each year. Students must check for the current deadlines, as late submissions are not accepted. The previous year’s dates can be used as a guide for planning, until a current year’s deadlines are posted.Throughout your doctoral program, you must be registered as a full-time student. You may register in various ways depending on your location, financial needs and progress to degree. Please review the Non-Resident option in the GSAS Student Handbook. If you need to interrupt your program, you may register for a Leave of Absence by application to GSAS. Students may also benefit from the Exchange Scholar Program, which allows for registration with a select group of schools which participate in the program with Harvard GSAS.An application for degree must be submitted by the deadline indicated in the Degree Calendar for a student to receive a degree from a GSAS degree program on one of the three annual degree conferral dates. Please refer to the current guidelines for preparation and submission of the dissertation in the GSAS Handbook.Online submission of the dissertation is required by the Graduate School. Please review the submission details found on the FAS Registrar’s site. No exceptions are granted for late submissions, nor are improperly formatted submissions accepted. Carefully review the formatting guidelines - you are responsible for proper formatting of the required documents.The signed, original Dissertation Acceptance Certificate following must be submitted to the Registrar’s Office by 5:00 PM on the dissertation deadline date. No exceptions are allowed.March degree candidates: the last term of enrollment is the fall term; do not register for spring.May degree candidates: the last term of enrollment is the spring term.November degree candidates: the last term of enrollment is the previous spring term.Students who do not deposit a dissertation by the deadline, must register for the fall term. Please see the current degree calendar on in the GSAS Handbook. Deadlines for health coverage selections may differ from degree submission deadlines; it is your responsibility to plan accordingly.In addition to academic requirements, students are required to meet the financial requirements for the degree. For details please review the Financial Aid & Requirements section of the GSAS Handbook.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Faculty advisors can review instruction here for lifting a registration hold.Normally you will be allowed to complete your work in the Study of Religion under the guidelines that existed when you entered the program. See the Coursework section for historical handbooks.Yes, this is possible. Make an appointment to see the Director of Undergraduate Studies, and be sure to bring with you syllabi from your other tutorials and a completed Plan of Study from the Study of Religion.Yes!Some of our students are religious and some are not. Those who are religious practice different faiths—Judaism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism and others. There is no presumption that students in religion will believe in God or practice a certain faith.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Yes!Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	To keep current on the unionization of graduate students at Harvard, please refer to the page managed by the Office of the Provost. Please note that the provost also sends direct communications to graduate students, faculty, and other members of the Harvard community.
GSAS made some recent changes which allow students to shift their priority years to any combination within G3, G4, G5, and G6 years. This allows students in the Study of Religion to do research work earlier in their program, if they have secured alternative sources of funding. Read the guidance here: https://gsas.harvard.edu/news/stories/gsas-implements-enhancements-funding-packages.For applicants to the Ph.D. program in the Study of Religion, a writing sample is required. The 10-page limit/2500-word limit refers to the main body of the paper and does not include bibliographies.Please go to "Apply PhD" and follow instructions on applying to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University.The GSAS made some changes to their funding structure for doctoral students entering 2016-17 and beyond. These allow for some deferrals of teaching fellowships to later G years and other enhancements. Read more.The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences offers accommodations to students who are anticipating the birth or adoption of a child. You may review the policy here: https://gsas.harvard.edu/student-life/harvard-resources/parental-accommodation-and-financial-supportFaculty advisors can review instruction here for lifting a registration hold.Incoming new graduate students receive their stipend disbursement on orientation day. Returning graduate students are issued stipend the first of September for the fall term. If you have not set up direct deposit, the check will be mailed on that date.Harvard offers a coordinated JD/PhD Program which is designed for students interested in completing interdisciplinary work and is founded on the belief that students’ legal studies and their arts and sciences graduate studies can be mutually enriched through this pursuit. Students completing the coordinated program receive a JD from Harvard Law School (HLS) and a PhD from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). It is expected that these students will be strong candidates for teaching posts at law schools and in arts and sciences programsWhen applying to the Doctoral Program, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences requires that you upload a copy of your transcript from each college/university attended with your online application. An official transcript showing the conferral of the undergraduate degree is required to register in the Graduate School. An official transcript that differs from the application copy may bar an admitted candidate from registering.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Yes. Applications that do not have GRE scores are considered incomplete. Refer to the GSAS Application Instructions for more details on submitting scores.Program guidelines stipulate that students should complete their degrees in seven years. Some students may complete their doctoral programs sooner. Various factors, such as language study or research abroad, will affect the length of a student's program.As part of the funding offered to admitted students, teaching fellowships are made available beginning in year three. Teaching experience is integral to the doctoral program. Teaching Fellowship positions are most often found through the Divinity School and in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Additional teaching opportunities include work as junior and senior tutors with small groups or individuals majoring in religion, as well as work with HarvardX and the Harvard Extension School. Every effort is made to give students the best information for securing these teachingYes. Once you are a student, you are eligible to apply for a range of fellowships at various stages in your program, for example, summer language study grants, traveling fellowships for research abroad, other research grants, and dissertation completion fellowships.All admissions decisions are made without knowing the financial need of the applicants, so that financial status plays no role in the assessment of one's suitability for admission. Please see the current standard funding package on the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences website.It is very important that you write a clear and informative statement of purpose. You should be able to talk in some detail about your academic interests, what led you to them, and what you envision the focus of your program at Harvard would be. As much as possible, you should familiarize yourself with the faculty and resources at Harvard in your proposed area of study. Reviewers of your application will look for a good "fit" between what you want to do and what Harvard has to offer.Academic preparation is also extremely important, and reviewersWhile a master's degree is not a requirement, it is a distinct advantage in the application process, and in fact, most students admitted to the Ph.D. program have already earned master's degrees. The background gained from one or two years of study beyond the undergraduate level allows a student to enter a doctoral program prepared to do the advanced work required for a Ph.D. Students with an undergraduate record of high quality and extensive academic preparation relevant to their statement of purpose may be admitted with only a B.A.The program is highly competitive – we can accept only 5-7% of applicants to the PhD. For that reason, we look for the most capable applicants, with excellent credentials in all areas.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Faculty advisors can review instruction here for lifting a registration hold.Normally you will be allowed to complete your work in the Study of Religion under the guidelines that existed when you entered the program. See the Coursework section for historical handbooks.Yes, this is possible. Make an appointment to see the Director of Undergraduate Studies, and be sure to bring with you syllabi from your other tutorials and a completed Plan of Study from the Study of Religion.Yes!Some of our students are religious and some are not. Those who are religious practice different faiths—Judaism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism and others. There is no presumption that students in religion will believe in God or practice a certain faith.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Please go to "Apply PhD" and follow instructions on applying to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    While a master's degree is not a requirement, it is a distinct advantage in the application process, and in fact, most students admitted to the Ph.D. program have already earned master's degrees. The background gained from one or two years of study beyond the undergraduate level allows a student to enter a doctoral program prepared to do the advanced work required for a Ph.D. Students with an undergraduate record of high quality and extensive academic preparation relevant to their statement of purpose may be admitted with only a B.A.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences offers accommodations to students who are anticipating the birth or adoption of a child. You may review the policy here: https://gsas.harvard.edu/student-life/harvard-resources/parental-accommodation-and-financial-supportCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Program guidelines stipulate that students should complete their degrees in seven years. Some students may complete their doctoral programs sooner. Various factors, such as language study or research abroad, will affect the length of a student's program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	To keep current on the unionization of graduate students at Harvard, please refer to the page managed by the Office of the Provost. Please note that the provost also sends direct communications to graduate students, faculty, and other members of the Harvard community.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The program is highly competitive – we can accept only 5-7% of applicants to the PhD. For that reason, we look for the most capable applicants, with excellent credentials in all areas.Please note that there is only one application period; there is no rolling admissions.For detailed application requirements to the Ph.D. program in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University, please visit this page: http://www.gsas.harvard.edu/prospective_students/application_instructions_and_information.phpCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Religion is a dynamic and powerful force in shaping cultures and complex civilizations, so understanding religion is critical for many areas of study from art, literature, and music to history, politics, and public health. Studying religion is exciting and demanding. The history of religions is global in scope and invites us to study the languages and cultures of the world. The currents of religion today are swift and often turbulent and require the very best analysis of scholars in the humanities and social sciences.Harvard’s programs in religious studies are distinctive for the intensive study of historical religious traditions and the insistence that such study is always, in some sense, comparative. Religious traditions have not developed in isolation, but in constant interaction with each other and in ever-new contexts.For alumni wishing to make gifts exclusively to the Study of Religion:Gifts by credit card, please click here (for general University gifts) and follow the instructions.  When selecting a school/affiliate to donate to, please choose “Other” from the dropdown menu and enter a note in the “Comments/Other Designation” box with instructions that this gift should go to the “Committee on the Study of Religion”. You may include a program too (AB or PhD).Gifts by check:  Harvard University, Recording Secretary’s Office, 124 Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, MA  02138.  Please make checks payable to “The President and Fellows of Harvard College” and include a note in the memo line of the check that this is for the “The Committee on the Study of Religion”.Thank you! Please contact us if you have any questions: csrel@fas.harvard.eduCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Religion is a dynamic and powerful force in shaping cultures and complex civilizations, so understanding religion is critical for many areas of study from art, literature, and music to history, politics, and public health. Studying religion is exciting and demanding. The history of religions is global in scope and invites us to study the languages and cultures of the world. The currents of religion today are swift and often turbulent and require the very best analysis of scholars in the humanities and social sciences.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Comparative Study of Religion Concentration is open to all undergraduate students currently enrolled in the college - an application to the concentration is not required. Students may choose the honors or non-honors track. Students considering the concentration are encouraged to contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Plans of study follow one of two forms, Option A or Option B.Joint concentrations are possible in two configurations with differing degree requirements. In both cases, students must complete a senior honors thesis.Previous Religion concentrators have joined with Social Studies, English, History, History of Art and Architecture, Music, Government, and Philosophy, among others.Religion as a Secondary Field is also open to enrolled students alike, but does not require the writing of an honors thesis. The secondary field does require six courses, two of which are comparative or methodological courses .Students pursuing a Secondary Field in Religion are also asked to complete a Plan of Study and discuss it with the Director of Undergraduate Studies.*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Every religion concentrator has a faculty adviser who signs his/her study card and is available for consultation. In most cases, academic advisers share intellectual interests with their advisees. Concentrators meet with their advisers at the start of each term to discuss their concentration plan and intellectual interests. The Director of Undergraduate Studies makes all advising assignments and manages all advising relationships. If you would like to request a specific adviser, or if you have general questions about advising, please contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies.All seniors have as their academic adviser, the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, who oversees both the senior thesis program for concentrators in the honors track and the development of cohesive plans of study for all concentrators.*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    This area of research encompasses three subfields:Students are required to take courses in method and theory in the Study of Religion. This may include the mandatory courses offered by the Committee on Religious Studies and others such as ethnography, anthropology and sociology of religion, phenomenology of religion; race, ethnicity and gender, and postcolonial theory. In addition to courses offered in the three subfields outlined above, they are also encouraged to take relevant courses in other cognate disciplines and departments such as history, ethnic studies, literature, sociology, government, etc. Students will also be required to take at least one indigenous African language such as Yoruba, Twi, Hausa, or Zulu alongside a European language useful for archival and library research such as French, German, or Portuguese. The exam will vary according to the student’s area of concentration and should be worked out with the student’s advisor. It may be administered in four general areas including method and theory in the Study of Religion; ethnography and/or archival research; and an examination in the student’s area focus.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Admission to the Ph.D. program in the Study of Religion at Harvard is very competitive: typically only 5-6% of all applicants are admitted. Basic requirements, as a minimum, include a bachelor's degree, or its equivalent, with an undergraduate record of outstanding quality - a previous master's degree is not required, but it is the rare, exceptional student who is admitted without one. Similarly, while a previous major in the field of religion is not required, the applicant's background in this and related subjects is a critical consideration.Applicants must submit: current GRE scores; TOEFL scores if a non-native English speaker unless the applicant holds a B.A. degree (or equivalent degree) from an English-speaking university; note that for the Ph.D. in Religion, the minimum TOEFL scores are 620 for the paper-based test, or 105 for the Internet-based test. In addition, applicants must submit an abstract of courses, three letters of recommendation, a Statement of Purpose outlining their proposed project, and a writing sample of no more than 10 pages (2500 words).The annual application deadline to the Study of Religion is in mid-December. Please see the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for the exact deadline for your year of application. If you anticipate needing assistance with any portion of the application, please contact the Admissions Office well in advance of the deadline. We do not offer rolling admissions and we do not offer on-line study programs, also known as "distance learning" programs.Please note the research fields listed on our site are the current fields of study. The Committee on the Study of Religion admits students to the doctoral program who have clearly defined intellectual interests. Applicants should choose only one area of specialization from the list. There may be cases where students' interests span two fields: in such a case a student - for example, interested in Buddhism in America - may be referred to readers in two fields, in this case Buddhist Studies and Religions of the Americas. Applicants must clearly explain their interdisciplinary interests in their statement of purpose and also state which field would be their primary field.  If you find your particular field of interest is not on the GSAS site please contact us.All doctoral applicants are expected to have foundational language skills needed for primary research (textual or ethnographic) in the area of specialization (Greek, Hebrew, Latin, Sanskrit, Arabic, Chinese, etc.) at the time of application. In addition, admitted students must demonstrate reading competence in two modern languages of secondary scholarship relevant to their course of study. These languages are determined in consultation with an adviser after admission to the program.  All admitted students receive the same financial aid: five years of tuition and fee assistance plus stipend, including summer stipends after years one through four. The stipend in years three and four is primarily underwritten by Teaching Fellowships. The fifth year of funding is intended for a student's final year in order to complete the dissertation.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Students in the concentration go on to pursue a range of professional activities. Below are a our most recent graduates with professional information included as it is available to us.Meghan Brooks (2014) focused on Islam in the modern period. She is working as a legal assistant at Sanford Heisler, a public interest law firm that specializes in race and gender-based employment discrimination class action lawsuits. She writes briefs, conducts client depositions, and manages client relations. She is considering a career in law.Linda Buehler (2014), a joint concentrator with Religion and Women Gender and Sexuality, focused on Christianity in the modern period. Linda is working in the Cambridge to further her research time; she plans to apply to divinity school.Edward Escalon (2014) focused on Religion in America. He is pursuing a master's degree at Union Theological Seminary in New York.Rachel Horn (2014) pursued comparative work on American religion, particularly Christianity and Islam. She participated in the Aladdin Project's International Summer University for Intercultural Leadership Program in 2014. She is currently exploring career options in public service, policy, the arts, and radio broadcasting.Sharon Kelleher (2014), a secondary field student in religion, concentrated in Government. Sharon is working in Boston at the law firm of Wilmer Hale.Kelly Maeshiro (2014) is pursuing a master's at Union Theological Seminary.David Sackstein (2014) focused on Judaism, with a secondary field in Molecular and Cellular Biology. He works in Cambridge at Harvard Hillel as the Israel and Campus Engagement Coordinator.Tim Seery (2014) is pursing an MDiv at the Harvard Divinity School.Jacob Shack (2014) focused on religion in the modern west, with a thematic emphasis on religion and society. He is pursuing a master's degree in viola performance at The Juilliard School in New York City.Allison Aitken, Doctoral Candidate (2013) Thesis: Reflections on Reality: Śrigupta in the Intellectual History of the Madhyamaka. Allison is pursuing a Ph.D. in South Asian Studies at Harvard.Shao Min Chia Chew, Teacher (2013) Thesis: Making Oneself Muslim: Creative Construction of Autonomy in America. Shao Min is working for Vegas Magazine.  Blair Gullick (2013) Thesis: Barriers to the Safe Delivery of African Mothers: On the Relationship between Religion and Maternal Health in Western Kenya. Blair is working with Teach for America in San Francisco.Isabel Hebert (2013), Doctoral Candidate Thesis: Art between Man and God: Grünewald's Crucifixion and Religion in the Modern West. Isabel completed an internship this past summer with the Peabody Essex Museum and is currently pursuing doctoral work in Art History at the University of Cambridge. As an undergraduate, Isabel researched South Asian Religions and Art and Architecture.Sara Lytle, Pastoral Care Intern at Bishop Anderson House (2013, Buddhism and Modern West/Religions of the Americas, secondary concentration in Psychology) Thesis: Walking the Path Together, Crossing Alone: The Practice of Care in Buddhist Hospices. Within Psychology, Sara is particularly interested in the interaction of Buddhist psychology and philosophy with psychotherapy and modern psychology. During her undergraduate studies, Sara taught English in Bosnia-Herzegovina as an intern for the Tuzla Summer Institute, a multicultural educational program that is a joint partnership between Bosnia Initiatives for Local Development and the Tuzla Muftiate.Kate Zavadski (2013) Thesis: Spiritual Wheaties: Tradition, Prayer, and Power in the Nation's Oldest Daily Prayer Service. Katie is currently working with New York Magazine.Paula Bu, Med Student (2012, Christianity and Judaism) Thesis: Redefining What is Fit to Eat in the 21st Century: Sustainable Eating and Contemporary American Jewish Identity. Paula is currently pursuing a Doctor of Medicine at Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University. Paula’s various passions include: interfaith work, 'all things food', indie-folk music and travel. As a student, she spent a semester interning in Israel with the Interreligious Coordinating Council and spent a summer volunteering with CitySprouts to mentor middle school youth and help plan and lead lessons related to urban gardens, food and nutrition, and community service. She plans to pursue a degree in medicine upon graduation.Avery Erwin (2012, Modern West) Thesis: To Steal the Sun from the SkyAlexander Gerson (2012, South Asia) Thesis: Relishing Aestheticized Emotion in Cinema: Tom Ford’s A Single Man through the Lens of Abhinavagupta’s Theological AestheticsNoam Hassenfeld (2012, South Asian Religions-Hinduism and the Arts, secondary concentration in Music) Thesis: Flexible Conservatism: Authority and Ambiguity in the Thought of Vivekananda and Schechter. Noam’s thesis compares specific modern Hindu and Jewish approaches to tradition. Noam is currently teaching 3rd grade in New Orleans with Teach For America. As a student, Noam directed, composed and performed for The Harvard Undergraduate Drummers (THUD) and has played with the Pan-African Dance and Music Ensemble, as well as Gamelan Galak-Tika, the Balinese gamelan at MIT. He interned with ASCAP in the film/TV music division in L.A.Aneliese Palmer (2012, Christianity) Thesis: The World as a Divine Symphony: Art and Self at Kylemore AbbeyAlyssa Yamamoto, Collaboration Catalyst at Village Health Works (2012, Modern West, secondary concentration in Government) Thesis: Constellations of Friendship: Justice Illuminated by Affinities and Affections. Her thesis blended ethnographic participation at a local HIV/AIDS center with a theoretical analysis of the existential, ethical encounter with the Other. As a student, Alyssa was active with the Global Health and AIDS Coalition and worked as a global health governance research assistant analyzing technology transfers, intellectual property rights, and local medicines production. As a student, she interned at the Clinton Foundation's Clinton Global Initiative.Tobyn Aaron (2011, Islam and Judaism) Her previous interests brought her to Japan to live in a Buddhist Temple and to Ethiopia on a summer travel grant to work with the Human Capital Foundation as a teaching fellow to AIDS orphans. Tobyn is currently an intern with No Peace Without Justice in Belgium, where she builds on her interests in traditional notions of, and mechanisms for, justice.Meghan Cleary, Law Student (2011, Philosophy of Religion and Modern West, secondary concentration in Women and Gender Studies) Thesis: Woman and Her Body, Me and Mine. Meghan worked with the Sex Crimes Unit of the New York County District Attorney’s Office since graduation and is currently attending Harvard Law School. As an undergraduate, she worked at the Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in American, was a member of Harvard's track/cross country teams and was very involved with ECHO, a peer-counseling group.Danielle Gram, Client Development Associate with Axiom in NYC (2011, Focus on Christian enculturation in non-western societies, secondary concentration in Sociology) Thesis: Child Witches and Witch Hunts: New Images of the Occult in the Democratic Republic of Congo, awarded the Hoopes Prize. As a Sheldon Prize Travelling Fellowship recipient, Danielle worked in Northern Uganda on post-conflict rehabilitation projects and research geared towards war-affected women and children. Danielle co-founded Kids for Peace in 2006, she is a Resolution Guide with The Resolution Project, a member of the Youth Award Review Committee for World of Children and previously worked as an Analyst for J.T. Gram & Associates, Inc. As a student, her research interests included studying cases of mass violence, war, disaster, and human rights challenges.Jamie Olson, Instructor at Capstone Prep in Hong Kong (2011, Islam) Thesis: Harmony or Harm? Sama and the Law in 18th Century Islam. Jamie is currently teaching English at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey. As a student, Jamie studied Arabic and was a middle distance and cross-country runner for Harvard Track and Field.Kelly Quinlan, Legal Intern at Advocates for Children of New York (2011, Modern West, secondary concentration in Sociology) Thesis: ’Because We’re Catholic’: Conflict and Challenge in Urban Catholic Schools. This year, Kelly has been in Memphis teaching with Teach for America and in Thailand on a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship. As a student, she was a Yale Law School Fellow with the Advocates for Children of New York City, Inc. in NYC.Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    In doctoral work in Buddhist Studies at Harvard, it is possible to investigate ideas, practices, experiences, institutions, and life-worlds created by Buddhists in all times and places. Projects in this field can be focused on a single tradition or on interactions among religious groups, in a particular geographical area or across areas, and in either premodern or contemporary settings. The disciplinary range of the field is broad; the faculty welcomes projects in textual and intellectual history, cultural history, anthropology and ethnography, philosophy, literature, the arts, gender studies, and ethics. Comparative work is also welcomed. Projects regarding any corner of the Buddhist world are possible, but the field has particular strength in South Asia, East Asia, Inner Asia, and Tibet. Work in this field requires expertise in the classical and/or modern languages relevant to the specific project.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    “Comparative Studies” includes reference to aesthetics, anthropology, archaeology, ethnography, ethics, gender studies, history, linguistics, literature, philosophy, phenomenology, religion, the social sciences, theology and, as appropriate, other related areas and disciplines that are utilized in the larger field of the study of religion.In any of these areas and disciplinary approaches, comparative studies will normally be pursued with reference to two religious traditions, in accord with a carefully specified and fruitful theme or themes; exceptions will be made when circumstances indicate. Our hope is to introduce care and rigor into the field, while yet not precluding interests potential students may bring with them to our programs. A doctoral student will work with a scholar expert in each of the chosen traditions, and will in addition be advised in comparative theory and the construction of a sound comparative methodological framework throughout her or his program by one of the scholars listed below, or by another scholar serving on the CSR working in comparative studies who would be willing to serve in such a role.Applicants should already be reasonably familiar with at least one of the religious traditions to be studied, and possess a solid background in one or more of the languages relevant to the study of that tradition.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Concentrators draw up a concentration plan and statement of focus under the supervision of the Director of Undergraduate Studies and their adviser in consultation with appropriate members of the Committee on the Study of Religion. There are five concentration options – all require general, methodological, or comparative courses outside of the major religious tradition(s) being studied. These courses provide analytical tools and knowledge of other traditions that enable students to think with comparative and theoretical imagination about diverse phenomena in religion.Option A allows students to study two traditions, or one tradition and one theme, in depth. Students are required to take a small number of "General, Comparative, Methodological" courses. Students might examine comparative categories (e.g., pilgrimage, ritual, myth and so on) or interreligious contact and change across two traditions, or they might designate one tradition and one of the approved themes. Ideally, Option A students who choose to write a senior honors thesis will combine both of their two traditions (or their tradition and theme) in the thesis.Option B allows students to focus on one major tradition; the “General, Comparative, Methodological” requirement here is augmented slightly to ensure that students are exposed to comparative themes and different methodologies.Students will have a joint concentration with religion as their primary field. This option requires that a senior honors thesis be written.Students will have a joint concentration with religion as their secondary field. This option also requires that a senior honors thesis be written.Religion as a Secondary Field does not require the writing of an honors thesis. The secondary field does require a combination of a) focused work in one area (a tradition or theme); and b) comparative or methodological courses that provide a broader framework for considering the tradition on which a student will focus. Students pursuing a Secondary Field in Religion are also asked to complete a Plan of Study and discuss it with the Director of Undergraduate Studies.At the beginning of each semester, students are asked to complete a Plan of Study and discuss it with their advisers.*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".It may be possible to substitute other traditions or themes depending on faculty and course offerings.Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Committee on the Study of Religion at Harvard University 12 Quincy St., Barker Center 302Cambridge, MA 02138csrel@fas.harvard.eduThe main entrance to the Barker Center is through the Quincy St. gate (across from the bus stop) and directly across from the Harvard Faculty Club.Deliveries can enter via the Prescott St. entrance. 15 minute parking is available with hazard lights on and access to the elevator is near this entrance.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	A full list of Undergraduate Courses for 2017-18 with descriptions can be found here. This list is updated as new courses are added.
Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Comparative Study of Religion offers an honors (14 half-courses) and a non-honors (12 half-courses) track. For all concentrators, 12 half-courses are distributed as follows:Students in the honors track also enroll in:To be considered for the honors track, students must write an honors thesis and participate in the senior tutorial (Religion 99). In order to be eligible to write a thesis, students must maintain a minimum average in the concentration of B+. Especially because the thesis is optional and is intended for students pursuing exceptional levels of achievement, we expect students to have developed, with the guidance of their advisers and mentors, the necessary competencies for their work, among them linguistic skills, fieldwork preparation, and archival practice. In particular, students who wish to pursue a thesis using ethnographic or anthropological approaches are required to complete Religion 20 or another approved course introducing these methods. Any student planning to write a thesis involving work with human subjects should plan to take an approved course in ethnographic or anthropological methods by the end of the junior year. For a list of courses that would fulfill this requirement, contact the Director or Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies. Note that students pursuing research using human subjects must also apply to Harvard’s Committee on the Use of Human Subjects for approval.In addition to Religion 99a and 99b (which is graded SAT/UNSAT), one half-course taken SAT/UNSAT at Harvard can be counted for concentration credit.Download the current or previous undergraduate concentrator handbooks: 2013-14, 2014-15, 2015-16While students are no longer required to take an intermediate language course, the concentration expects that they will study languages necessary to their specialty. Students who elect to write a senior honors thesis should integrate the use of relevant languages into their analysis (e.g., if a student is writing about Qur’anic interpretation, he or she needs to have some knowledge of Arabic). An important consideration in the evaluation of a senior thesis is whether students demonstrate an awareness of primary sources in their original language.In general, students may count up to two language courses towards concentration credit when the texts they are reading are either from a religious tradition or relevant to the study of a religious tradition, beginning with the second term of instruction in a single language.*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Introductory Courses in the Comparative Study of Religion are intended to introduce students to key categories in the study of religion (e.g., scripture, ethics, myth, body and practice), both within a comparative context (specifically in more than three traditions) and with significant attention to theoretical and methodological. These courses are an excellent way to explore the field.An introductory course with a comparative component (one numbered 11 through 20) is required of all concentrators, and students are advised to take one during their first three semesters at Harvard. Currently offered introductory courses include the following:Religion 12. Critical Issues in the Comparative Study of Religion Religion 13. Scriptures and ClassicsReligion 20. Ethnographies of Religion, Texts and ContextsOther courses designed for undergraduates exploring the concentration:Religion 25: Introduction to JudaismReligion 40. Incarnation and Desire: An Introduction to Christianity Religion 50. Religion, Law and American Politics: SeminarReligion 57: Faith and Authenticity: Religion, Existentialism and the Human ConditionReligion 1003: Comparative Religion: History, Challenge, PotentialReligion 1006: Religion and Literature: An IntroductionReligion 1018: African American Religions: An IntroductionReligion 1806: The Vocabulary of IslamRegister your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-tools*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Ph.D. program in religion at Harvard dates from 1934, when the Faculty of Arts and Sciences established a degree of Ph.D. in "The History and Philosophy of Religion". Its purpose, as stated by the Faculty, was "to make possible a course of studies which shall enable the candidate both to lay a broad and sufficient foundation for teaching and study within the field of religion, and to do individual research at some point in that field". In accordance with that expressed intention, the Faculty voted in 1963 to name the program The Study of Religion. This program as of 2015, is jointly offered by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and Harvard Divinity School. It is administered by the Committee on the Study of Religion in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Faculty from both schools advise Ph.D. students and offer courses in the program. Applicants to the Ph.D. program apply to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Harvard University.From 1914 to 2014 students were admitted to the Th.D. program, with the degree conferred by the Harvard Divinity School. The program came to be administered by the Committee on the Study of Religion (FAS) beginning in 1982. In 2015 Harvard Divinity School merged its doctoral designation into the Ph.D. program. Those students previously admitted into the Th.D. program in the Study of Religion continue to be candidates for the Th.D., however no new students will be admitted to earn the Th.D.At Harvard, advanced programs of study involving religion may be arranged under many auspices. The Ph.D. under the Committee on the Study of Religion, in "The Study of Religion", is one among various possibilities. Some candidates will find that they can best pursue their interests by becoming a candidate for the Ph.D. in such departments as Anthropology, Classics, History, East Asian or Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, Philosophy, or South Asian Studies.Resources for the study of religion at Harvard are vast. We offer courses in the range of religious traditions from the ancient Zoroastrian tradition to modern Christian liberation movements, Islamic and Jewish philosophies, Buddhist social movements, and Hindu arts and culture. Some of us work primarily as historians, others as scholars of texts, others as anthropologists, although the boundaries of these methodologies are never firm. Some of us are adherents of a religious tradition; others are not at all religious. The Study of Religion is exciting and challenging precisely because of the conversations that take place across the complexities of disciplines, traditions, and intellectual commitments.Courses in religion are offered in many departments – Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, East Asian Languages and Civilizations, Anthropology, South Asian Studies, and Medieval Studies, among others. Faculty members in these and other departments are affiliated with the Study of Religion. In addition, Harvard Divinity School has a wide-ranging faculty many of whose courses are available to students for cross-registration.To review the areas of study in which students may pursue doctoral work, please see: Research.
	Director of Graduate Studies, Professor David Hollanddholland@hds.harvard.edu

	Program Administrator, Elise Ciregnaemciregna@fas.harvard.eduThD Administrator, Kathryn Kunkelkkunkel@hds.harvard.edu
These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The advising of doctoral students is one of the most important aspects of our work as teachers and scholars. This document is meant to establish some general guidelines or best practices for the advisor-doctoral student relationship as a set of mutual or shared responsibilities. “Guidelines for Advising and Mentoring Doctoral Students” was developed in conversations among members of the Doctoral Subcommittee (which includes doctoral student representatives) and more broadly with students in the program.Entering doctoral students may request a specific advisor; customarily the faculty member indicated in the student's application based on the area of specialization is assigned. Doctoral students can and should request a change of advisor if the need arises, and all students are encouraged to work with as many faculty members in their field as possible. Occasionally students will have two co-advisors.The primary responsibilities of the advisor are a) to counsel the student on how best to lay the foundations, through course work and seminars, for more independent work in the area of specialization; and b) to help ensure that these specialized studies are set within the general context of the study of religion. The faculty advisor participates in a student’s second year review, ordinarily chairs the examining committee for the general examinations, works with the student in formulating a prospectus, and directs the writing of the dissertation.Advisors meet with their doctoral students—especially those at the pre-dissertation stage—a minimum of three times per semester, for at least an hour each meeting: at the beginning, mid-point, and end of the semester. For students who are working elsewhere and easily accessible via phone and/or email, the same general guidelines for contact hours apply.Advisors remain in contact with doctoral students as above during periods of leave.In advising first- and second-year doctoral students, special attention is paid to the work of choosing classes. Coursework selections are meant to be general enough to provide context for the student’s special area(s) of interest and specific enough to guide the student toward both general examination fields and a workable dissertation topic. Advisors also help ensure that students meet their language requirements and their general course requirements in a timely fashion.In advising third-year students, special attention is paid to helping the student assemble a committee for general examinations.For students who are post-generals, advisors provide timely reading (within four weeks of submission) and substantial commenting on drafts of the dissertation prospectus and all subsequent chapters. Advisors also counsel students on seeking employment, from reading drafts of letters of application to commenting on writing samples and job talks to introducing students to scholars in the field at conferences and seminars.Requests for recommendation letters are to be made by the student at least three weeks in advance of the deadline; recommendation letters are written and submitted by the advisor in a timely fashion.Mentoring doctoral students in teaching constitutes an extremely important part of the advisor’s (and other faculty members’) role. Faculty meet with all Teaching Fellows for at least one hour per week to discuss the course materials and provide instruction and feedback on matters pertaining to good pedagogy. Ideally such meetings are run as small seminars, allowing student-teachers to think through the intellectual issues raised by the course with the instructor, to read beyond the syllabus as necessary, and to reflect upon the best means of engaging students in class discussion of the material.Currently, the CSR has a Departmental Teaching Fellow appointed jointly by the CSR and the Bok Center (see Resources).These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The East Asian Religions subfield addresses the religions of China, Korea, and Japan through their historical and doctrinal development, their interactions, and in their social, political, and cultural contexts. The subfield addresses Buddhism, Confucianism, Christianity, Islam, Daoism, Shinto, new religious movements, and other religious phenomena of the region.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    This field of concentration attends to the many ethical dimensions in religions, with particular interest in the formation of subjects by textual traditions, communities of exemplary instruction, social or political structures, and rituals or bodily disciplines. Faculty who teach in the area study ethics across diverse periods, regions, and traditions. Students are expected to concentrate on specific topics and theories while keeping in view cross-cultural or comparative contexts.Four General Examinations are required for the Ph.D. in ethics, three for the Th.D.The bibliography for each examination is to be composed in consultation with the faculty who will be conducting it under the general direction of the student’s advisor.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The program is highly competitive – we can accept only 5-7% of applicants to the PhD. For that reason, we look for the most capable applicants, with excellent credentials in all areas.While a master's degree is not a requirement, it is a distinct advantage in the application process, and in fact, most students admitted to the Ph.D. program have already earned master's degrees. The background gained from one or two years of study beyond the undergraduate level allows a student to enter a doctoral program prepared to do the advanced work required for a Ph.D. Students with an undergraduate record of high quality and extensive academic preparation relevant to their statement of purpose may be admitted with only a B.A.It is very important that you write a clear and informative statement of purpose. You should be able to talk in some detail about your academic interests, what led you to them, and what you envision the focus of your program at Harvard would be. As much as possible, you should familiarize yourself with the faculty and resources at Harvard in your proposed area of study. Reviewers of your application will look for a good "fit" between what you want to do and what Harvard has to offer.Academic preparation is also extremely important, and reviewersAll admissions decisions are made without knowing the financial need of the applicants, so that financial status plays no role in the assessment of one's suitability for admission. Please see the current standard funding package on the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences website.Yes. Once you are a student, you are eligible to apply for a range of fellowships at various stages in your program, for example, summer language study grants, traveling fellowships for research abroad, other research grants, and dissertation completion fellowships.As part of the funding offered to admitted students, teaching fellowships are made available beginning in year three. Teaching experience is integral to the doctoral program. Teaching Fellowship positions are most often found through the Divinity School and in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Additional teaching opportunities include work as junior and senior tutors with small groups or individuals majoring in religion, as well as work with HarvardX and the Harvard Extension School. Every effort is made to give students the best information for securing these teachingProgram guidelines stipulate that students should complete their degrees in seven years. Some students may complete their doctoral programs sooner. Various factors, such as language study or research abroad, will affect the length of a student's program.Yes. Applications that do not have GRE scores are considered incomplete. Refer to the GSAS Application Instructions for more details on submitting scores.When applying to the Doctoral Program, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences requires that you upload a copy of your transcript from each college/university attended with your online application. An official transcript showing the conferral of the undergraduate degree is required to register in the Graduate School. An official transcript that differs from the application copy may bar an admitted candidate from registering.Harvard offers a coordinated JD/PhD Program which is designed for students interested in completing interdisciplinary work and is founded on the belief that students’ legal studies and their arts and sciences graduate studies can be mutually enriched through this pursuit. Students completing the coordinated program receive a JD from Harvard Law School (HLS) and a PhD from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). It is expected that these students will be strong candidates for teaching posts at law schools and in arts and sciences programsIncoming new graduate students receive their stipend disbursement on orientation day. Returning graduate students are issued stipend the first of September for the fall term. If you have not set up direct deposit, the check will be mailed on that date.Faculty advisors can review instruction here for lifting a registration hold.The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences offers accommodations to students who are anticipating the birth or adoption of a child. You may review the policy here: https://gsas.harvard.edu/student-life/harvard-resources/parental-accommodation-and-financial-supportThe GSAS made some changes to their funding structure for doctoral students entering 2016-17 and beyond. These allow for some deferrals of teaching fellowships to later G years and other enhancements. Read more.Please go to "Apply PhD" and follow instructions on applying to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University.For applicants to the Ph.D. program in the Study of Religion, a writing sample is required. The 10-page limit/2500-word limit refers to the main body of the paper and does not include bibliographies.GSAS made some recent changes which allow students to shift their priority years to any combination within G3, G4, G5, and G6 years. This allows students in the Study of Religion to do research work earlier in their program, if they have secured alternative sources of funding. Read the guidance here: https://gsas.harvard.edu/news/stories/gsas-implements-enhancements-funding-packages.
	To keep current on the unionization of graduate students at Harvard, please refer to the page managed by the Office of the Provost. Please note that the provost also sends direct communications to graduate students, faculty, and other members of the Harvard community.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Some of our students are religious and some are not. Those who are religious practice different faiths—Judaism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism and others. There is no presumption that students in religion will believe in God or practice a certain faith.Yes!Yes, this is possible. Make an appointment to see the Director of Undergraduate Studies, and be sure to bring with you syllabi from your other tutorials and a completed Plan of Study from the Study of Religion.Normally you will be allowed to complete your work in the Study of Religion under the guidelines that existed when you entered the program. See the Coursework section for historical handbooks.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-tools*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Two years of doctoral study in residence are required. During those two years, students must register for and complete at least four credit courses per term. A student must have achieved the minimum grade point average of “B in each academic year and have met the regulations governing enrollment with incompletes.The Common Doctor of Theology Seminar (Divinity 4599) is required for every Th.D. student. It is offered in the fall term each year in conjunction with the Ph.D. Common Seminar (Religion 2001) for entering Th.D. and Ph.D. students in the Study of Religion. This course is intended to examine various theories and methods, themes and problems common to religious scholarship.In addition, candidates must take the graduate seminars required for their field concentration. Other required courses will be determined in consultation with the academic advisor. Students may continue to take courses as long as they are registered as students at the Divinity School.Additional information:Doctoral students who have completed course work may register in absentia if they reside and work outside the greater Boston area. They also may waive the health fee by filing the appropriate waiver form in the Registrar’s Office each semester. In absentia registration materials must be requested at least four weeks in advance of the start of the semester.Part-Time Th.D. Candidates:Once admitted and under certain circumstances, a Th.D. candidate may petition the Committee on the Study of Religion to work as a part-time student in order to take less than four credit courses per term during the first two years. Part-time students are charged at a per-course rate.Students must petition the Committee on the Study of religion prior to registration. Separate petitions must be filed for each academic year. On the petition, Th.D. candidates should indicate the reasons part-time status is sought and the number of courses for which they wish to register each term. Part-time study ordinarily is approved for the following reasons:Part-time students are subject to the same requirements and regulations as full-time students. Passed by HDS Faculty 4/23/2012. Reported to Standing Committee 5/11/2102.Students having extraordinary difficulty in passing language requirements are encouraged to contact both their program administrator and the Director of Language Testing.Language exams taken while a doctoral student was in a masters program at HDS may be used to fulfill the language requirement if the required grade has been achieved. However, final exam results for the language courses in the Summer Language Program or the full-year German tutorial are not acceptable: doctoral students must take the official language exam.Language Exams: Language competency exams are given three times a year, in early September, early February and late April. A passing level on a language exam attests that a student has sufficient knowledge and skill to use the language in scholarship. Some mistakes in recognizing grammar or vocabulary are allowed if they do not seriously undermine the student's ability to understand the language in question.During the one-hour exam, students are asked to translate a one to two page text of intermediate difficulty. Students may use a dictionary. Language exams are normally given for Hebrew, Greek, Latin, German, French, and Spanish. Students wishing to be tested in another language should consult the Director of Language Studies at HDS.If you have any preparation in the required languages, you are strongly urged to sign up for and take one (or more) of the language qualifying exams given in early September of your first year. You may find that you pass the exam, but even if you do not, you will be much better prepared to choose an appropriate course or study on your own before trying again. A failure is recorded on your internal record sheet, but is never released on a transcript.Th.D. students may take summer language courses without paying extra tuition during the summers immediately preceding and following their first year. All Th.D. students are required to participate in a Second-Year Review with at least two faculty members. The Th.D. administrator will remind all first year students before the beginning of their second year of this requirement. An “Intent to Take Second Year Review” will be sent to the students and must be returned as soon as possible. Ideally, this review will take place fall semester of the second year.The main purposes of the Second-Year Review are to consider and clarify the overall design and progress of a student’s academic program and to assess the student’s academic progress in general. Two weeks in advance of the Second-Year Review students must submit to the 2 participating faculty members the following: 1) a two-page statement of academic purpose, and 2) two major course papers, one of which should be in the student’s major field and the other in a different field or discipline. The main purpose of the Second Year Review is to consider and clarify the overall design and progress of a student’s academic program. To this end, a student participating in the Second Year Review must prepare a 2-page statement of academic purpose, to be shared in advance with the faculty who will participate in the review. A copy of this statement should be submitted to the Th.D. Program Administrator with the “Intent to take Second Year Review Form.”A second purpose of the review is to assess the student’s academic progress in general but also in regard to the degree requirements, including foreign languages. A student participating in the Second Year Review must submit two major course papers to their reviewers two weeks in advance. One of these papers should be in the student’s major field and the other in a different field or discipline.A third purpose of the Second Year Review is to review the fields that the student is proposing to cover on the General Examinations.The Second Year Review is to occur either in the third or at the latest, in the fourth semester of study. At the end of a student’s second semester, the program administrator will write a letter to the student and the advisor reminding them of when the Second Year Review should take place.The Second Year Review should, as needed, lead to any or some of the following recommendations: clarifying the timetable for completing any remaining requirements, specifying any further coursework to be taken, the addressing of any issues in advising, clarifying the fields and timetable for General Examinations. A written summary of all such recommendations should be sent to the student as soon as possible after the review, with a copy also sent to the program administrator.March 2004  For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    In preparing for senior thesis work, concentrators in the Study of Religion have often chosen to conduct research in the summer. For example, one student studying Buddhism lived in a Zen monastery in southern Japan for three months; another student working on modern Christianity did fieldwork among Christian activists in Nicaragua; still another student spent a summer tracing the headwaters of the Ganges and studying popular Hinduism.Harvard has a number of institutes and centers that provide summer research grants for undergraduate fieldwork and research. Depending upon the project, a student may apply for grants from, among others, the Center for African Studies, the Center for Middle Eastern Studies, the Edwin O. Reischauer Institute of Japanese Studies, the Henry Rosovsky Undergraduate Research Fund, the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American and Iberian Studies, the Center for International Affairs, and the Josephine Murray Traveling Fellowship Program of Radcliffe College. For more information students should consult the Harvard College Funding Sources database, listed below.Study of Religion Senior Thesis Prize. This small monetary prize is given out for a Religion thesis of highest distinction and is presented at the end of the academic year.Thomas T. Hoopes Prize. This is a prize open to all undergraduates doing outstanding scholarly work on any topic. The fund provides undergraduate thesis prizes that are given with the purpose of "promoting, improving and enhancing the quality of education." Undergraduates must be nominated by their thesis supervisors.There are other Harvard College prizes available for outstanding theses and essays. For more information: http://prizes.fas.harvard.edu.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-toolsDirector of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Doctoral studies in this field focus primarily on the religions of the ancient Mediterranean, particularly those originating or developing in the civilizations of ancient Greece and ancient Rome, especially from the Minoan to the Late Imperial periods. In approaching the study of the many religious traditions in this arc, students will be encouraged to use a variety of methodologies, attending especially to ritual studies, theological or meaning-making practices of ancient communities, gender analysis, and political, social, and economic contexts. The program trains students to gain facility with a variety of evidentiary sources, including material culture; literature; and archaeological, epigraphic, and papyrological materials. The program includes the expectation of language competency in either Greek or Latin at admission, as well as continued study of languages during the program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The principal focus of this program lies on the culture of biblical Israel (ca. 1200-150 BCE) within its ancient Near Eastern context. The methods of study are many and diverse. They include the rigorous study of Biblical Hebrew and its historical development within the Semitic family; the recovery of the historical development of the religion of Israel; the literary methods by which the artistry of the prose and poetry of the literature can be analyzed and appreciated; the theological dimensions of the literary corpus, within their original contexts and their recontexualizations in Judaism and Christianity, especially Judaism in the late Second Temple and rabbinic periods (ca. 200 BCE-500 CE) and Christianity in its first several centuries, and within modern religious discourse; and the hermeneutical questions that the interpretation of this ancient corpus in these various frames of reference necessarily raises.The field of Hebrew Bible/Old Testament requires students to pursue a number of languages to attain the requisite proficiency of a scholar in the field. These include biblical Hebrew, Aramaic, Greek, and German. Students often study others, such as Akkadian, Ugaritic, Egyptian, Modern Hebrew, and French, as well.There are two pre-general doctoral examinations, one in Biblical Hebrew and one in the content of the Hebrew Bible. These are usually taken at the end of the first or beginning of the second year in the program.The field requires four general examinations:In addition, there are several faculty members from cognate fields who offer invaluable assistance to the program.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    As a humanistic enterprise in the liberal arts, the study of religion is, like the social sciences, a relatively recent field of study in the curriculum of the western university. It is a field that spans the older tradition of the humanities, as well as the younger ones of the social sciences. At Harvard, it has been traditionally rooted in the study of history, languages, and philosophy, and if a bias still exists today, it is in the direction of these fields, in all of which the university is particularly strong.Harvard's concern with religion is as old as the college itself, which its founders hoped would advance learning so as not "to leave an illiterate ministry to the churches" in succeeding generations. The oldest professorship at Harvard is the Hollis Professor of Divinity, dating from 1721; the first graduate program for ministers was begun in 1811; and the Harvard Divinity School was founded in 1816. The tradition of professional ministerial education continues in the Divinity School through the M.Div. degree, and other graduate degree programs have been developed at the school.In the Yard, the Committee on the Study of Religion in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences administers two programs of study in religion, the more recent of which is the undergraduate concentration in "the Comparative Study of Religion", established by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences in 1974. The older program for the Ph.D. in the Study of Religion dates to 1934, when Ph.D. studies in "the History and Philosophy of Religion" were initiated. Harvard's distinguished record of scholarship in the study of religion in the arts and sciences context goes back still farther. One need only mention the name of William James, the great scholar of psychological and philosophical approaches to religion, or that of George Foot Moore, the eminent Semiticist and first renowned student of the religions of the world at Harvard.More recently, Arthur Darby Nock established a worldwide reputation in the study of Greco-Roman and Hellenistic religion and early Christianity. In recent years, Professor Emeritus Wilfred Cantwell Smith (1916-2000), one of the foremost historians of world religion, stands out for his major role in shaping the current structure of both the A.B. and Ph.D. programs in religion. The founding of the Center for the Study of World Religions at Harvard in 1960, and the tenure of Smith as the second director (1964-1974) were milestones in religious studies at Harvard. The Center has brought to Cambridge many beginning students as well as senior scholars from around the world over the past twenty-five years. It remains a major resource for students interested in comparative studies, both at the graduate and at the undergraduate level.The Committee on the Study of Religion is the interdisciplinary standing committee of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences that oversees both the undergraduate and doctoral (Ph.D. and Th.D.) programs in religion. The membership of this committee is drawn equally from the Arts and Sciences faculty and the Divinity faculty. Diverse departments are represented on the Committee, and students may find themselves working with professors in very different fields during their program of study: Classics, English, Archaeology, Fine Arts, Anthropology, History of Science, Psychology, and Philosophy, among others.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Students in this area may specialize in any aspect of the history of Christianity broadly conceived including theology and religious thought, devotional practices and expressions, institutions and movements, social and cultural contexts, and lived religion. Students are expected to develop critical skills of documentary, artifactual and ethnographical interpretation, to develop methodological expertise appropriate for their chosen topic, and to familiarize themselves with the history of interpretive and historiographical traditions in their field. Although projects on all aspects of the history of Christianity are welcomed, the faculty has particular strengths in late antique, medieval, European, transatlantic, Caribbean, and American Christianity. Within those periods and locations there is particular expertise in the history of mysticism and enthusiasm, ethics and religious thought, race, gender and sexuality, radical, liberal, and evangelical expressions of Christianity, and African American Christianity and media culture. Students working on the history of American Christianity are expected to attend the bimonthly North American Religions Colloquium.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Religion 91r is a course of supervised reading and research on a special topic in the Study of Religion. The 91r permits individuals or small groups to examine subjects that cannot be studied in regular courses. It involves reading and written work, both of which are evaluated by the faculty director with a letter grade and written comments. Religion 91r is normally open only to concentrators. The director of the course must be a member of the Harvard faculty—though exceptions to this rule may, in some cases, be authorized by the Director of Undergraduate Studies.Students who wish to enroll in a 91r must give the Director of Undergraduate Studies a petition, signed by the proposed faculty director, that describes the reading and written work to be completed. The 91r petition is available from the Director of Undergraduate Studies. All Religion 91r proposals must receive the approval of the Director of Undergraduate Studies prior to the deadline for handing in study cards.*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Islamic Studies engages students in the study of the religious institutions, texts and devotional life of Muslim societies. It encourages the study of Islam within a framework emphasizing the dynamic interaction between a global religious tradition and its multiple contexts (political, social, historical, literary, etc). Comparative work is welcome, as is the study of Islam in regional and transnational contexts. Study in this field usually requires some competence in Arabic and/or another language relevant to the student's specific Islamic research interests.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    This field offers a wide variety of foci in which to study Judaism in periods ranging from the Second Temple to the contemporary. The methods of study vary with the concentration of the individual candidate, but in all cases involve substantial involvement in historical and textual approaches in the original languages and in the placement of the phenomena of Jewish religion within the larger cultural and religious contexts of the period. The students are encouraged to acquire basic familiarity with the broad sweep of Jewish history, literature, and religious thought beyond the limits of their own specialization and to develop an understanding of Judaism within the broader framework of the study of religion.Students are expected to have, or acquire, advanced proficiency in Hebrew and a good reading knowledge of German. In addition, depending on the individual specialization, they may be expected to acquire a sound reading knowledge in other languages, such as Aramaic, Greek, Latin, Arabic, Yiddish, and French. Students are to work out their general examination structure and the bibliography for specific examinations in consultation with the faculty in the field and with awareness of the overall expectations of the doctoral program in the Committee on the Study of Religion. At least one examination will ordinarily be based on a special topic.Recent and Current Dissertation Topics Include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Junior Tutorial is an opportunity for students to work closely with a tutor and one to four other students on a specific topic in the study of religion. The tutorial should be within the student’s major tradition (or in one of the two in the case of students in Option A). Juniors have the option of taking a second tutorial. Students wishing to pursue this option should discuss it with the Director of Undergraduate Studies. The purposes of junior tutorials are:In short, junior tutorials help students read texts carefully and make persuasive arguments about them. They also are an opportunity for students to begin work on an area of special academic interest.  The most important part of the junior tutorial is the work assigned for each and every week, and tutorial preparation should have top priority in a student’s studies. In addition, students will usually use the tutorial as a context in which to write the junior paper.The Junior Paper is completed by all juniors. It provides an opportunity to engage in an extended research project leading to a substantial piece of scholarship (approximately 25 pages). The paper should address a significant question or problem in the Study of Religion. It must engage both primary and secondary sources and be explicit regarding the methodology utilized. The final product should be the polished result of multiple drafts and rewriting.Most often, students will write their junior paper in the context of the junior tutorial. In exceptional circumstances, arrangements can be made to write the paper in the context of a seminar. Students are encouraged to use this project as a starting point for the senior thesis.Junior Year Abroad is an excellent opportunity for Harvard College students. In the Study of Religion, if a student studies abroad usually they also have to double up on tutorials for one semester, either before leaving or after returning to campus. Tutorials cannot be taken out of residence. We recommend study abroad for the fall or spring of the junior year.Funding for International Experience may be found via the Harvard College Funding Sources Database.See the Office of International Education for more resources.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-toolsDirector of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Many of these organizations have their own events calendars and mailing lists. We do not usually repeat events from the mailing lists of other organizations in our own newsletter, so if you are interested in staying up to date, you are encouraged to subscribe to the appropriate mailing list.Harvard Divinity SchoolCenter for the Study of World Religions at the Harvard Divinity SchoolWomen's Studies in Religion Program at the Harvard Divinity SchoolReligions and the Practice of Peace InitiativeMahindra Humanities CenterThe Pluralism Project Weatherhead Center for International AffairsThe Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Islamic Studies ProgramDumbarton Oaks Research Library and CollectionHarvard University Center For Middle Eastern StudiesHarvard University South Asia InstituteHarvard University Asia Center Reischauer Institute of Japanese StudiesFairbank Center for Chinese StudiesHutchins Center for African and African American ResearchCommittee on Inner Asia and Altaic StudiesHarvard Buddhist Studies ForumHarvard ChaplainsUndergraduate ResourcesDoctoral ResourcesCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Many of these organizations have their own events calendars and mailing lists. We do not usually repeat events from the mailing lists of other organizations in our own newsletter, so if you are interested in staying up to date, you are encouraged to subscribe to the appropriate mailing list.Harvard Divinity SchoolCenter for the Study of World Religions at the Harvard Divinity SchoolWomen's Studies in Religion Program at the Harvard Divinity SchoolReligions and the Practice of Peace InitiativeMahindra Humanities CenterThe Pluralism Project Weatherhead Center for International AffairsThe Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Islamic Studies ProgramDumbarton Oaks Research Library and CollectionHarvard University Center For Middle Eastern StudiesHarvard University South Asia InstituteHarvard University Asia Center Reischauer Institute of Japanese StudiesFairbank Center for Chinese StudiesHutchins Center for African and African American ResearchCommittee on Inner Asia and Altaic StudiesHarvard Buddhist Studies ForumHarvard Chaplains You may submit forms by email, mail or fax. If you are a visitor, the Student & Visitor Reimbursement Form and a W-9 are required.*Paper clips please - thank you! FAS ClassroomsSchedules classroom and event spaces outside of departmental rooms. Rooms can be requested and viewed via RoomBook. Questions: classrms@fas.harvard.edu The Study of Religion  Barker Center CSR Seminar Room (403), small meeting room (303), or teaching fellow office (408). Priority is given to CSR courses and faculty, then section meetings, followed by one-time events (both internal and external) Contact Staff Assistant: csrel@fas.harvard.eduBarker Center Special EventsThe Thompson Room (Barker 110) is the large gathering space on the 1st floor. It is scheduled via RoomBook. View the Inventory of Classroom SpacesSelect "Browse by Buildings" for the quickest views.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Many of these organizations have their own events calendars and mailing lists. We do not usually repeat events from the mailing lists of other organizations in our own newsletter, so if you are interested in staying up to date, you are encouraged to subscribe to the appropriate mailing list.Harvard Divinity SchoolCenter for the Study of World Religions at the Harvard Divinity SchoolWomen's Studies in Religion Program at the Harvard Divinity SchoolReligions and the Practice of Peace InitiativeMahindra Humanities CenterThe Pluralism Project Weatherhead Center for International AffairsThe Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Islamic Studies ProgramDumbarton Oaks Research Library and CollectionHarvard University Center For Middle Eastern StudiesHarvard University South Asia InstituteHarvard University Asia Center Reischauer Institute of Japanese StudiesFairbank Center for Chinese StudiesHutchins Center for African and African American ResearchCommittee on Inner Asia and Altaic StudiesHarvard Buddhist Studies ForumHarvard Chaplains*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-toolsDirector of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Please submit any news items you would like featured in our weekly mailing to csrel@fas.harvard.edu by 5pm on Friday of the previous week. blankTo list an event in the weekly e-mailer please include your event information as a text email to csrel@fas.harvard.edu including: title, time, day, location, any related audience restrictions, cost (if not free) and a relevant hyperlink. Please do not send attachments. Submissions must be received by Friday to be included in the following week's announcements. The weekly mailer includes CFPs, job postings, lectures and program announcements. To list events on the web calendar, please send the same information and indicate your preference.From Church History to Tibetan Buddhist Rituals: A History on the Committee on the Study of Religion, by Ann HallFor alumni wishing to make gifts exclusively to the Study of Religion:Gifts by credit card, please click here (for general University gifts) and follow the instructions.  When selecting a school/affiliate to donate to, please choose “Other” from the dropdown menu and enter a note in the “Comments/Other Designation” box with instructions that this gift should go to the “Committee on the Study of Religion”. You may include a program too (AB or PhD).Gifts by check:  Harvard University, Recording Secretary’s Office, 124 Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, MA  02138.  Please make checks payable to “The President and Fellows of Harvard College” and include a note in the memo line of the check that this is for the “The Committee on the Study of Religion”.Thank you! Please contact us if you have any questions: csrel@fas.harvard.eduCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The doctoral program (Th.D. and Ph.D.) in New Testament and Early Christianity involves the multidisciplinary study of Christian literature (canonical and extracanonical, from the first to the fourth centuries), history, religion, and theology within the broader context of the ancient Mediterranean world. The principal focus of this doctoral work is twofold: 1) to analyze ancient texts (including material culture) and to place these within a critical historiography of the ancient Mediterranean world; 2) to gain familiarity with a range of interpretive frameworks and critical approaches toward scriptures, ancient texts, and the scholarship of the field.The program offers particular strengths in diverse approaches to the field (feminist and postcolonial studies, hermeneutics, rhetoric and ethics of interpretation, and the analysis of the material culture of antiquity, [including archaeology and papyrology]), and diverse texts, including those of the New Testament (especially the Pauline Epistles, the Gospels, Acts, Revelation, 1 Peter), Nag Hammadi and other Coptic literature, as well as apologetic, apocalyptic, and martyrdom literatures.Required Seminars: Students generally pursue coursework during their first two years in the doctoral program. In addition to two seminars required of all first and second year doctoral students in the study of religion, doctoral candidates in New Testament/Early Christian Studies will participate in Religion 3420hf/HDS 1980: Seminar for Advanced New Testament Students.Languages: Doctoral candidates are required to demonstrate competence in Greek at an advanced level by passing the department’s Greek qualifying examination, and intermediate to advanced competency in at least one additional ancient language appropriate to their plan of study (usually Latin, Hebrew, Coptic, or Syriac), as well as reading facility in two modern research languages relevant to their area of study (usually French and German). Prior language preparation is a significant factor in doctoral admissions. Once students have passed the advanced Greek examination, they will pursue a Greek reading course offered by the department, or, in rare cases, upon consultation with their advisors, can be exempted from this course for an alternative Greek course (e.g., in Classics) or a course in another ancient language relevant for their research. The above are only minimum requirements, since candidates will find they will need to use all of these languages currently in their studies and research; furthermore, each candidate's interests will usually dictate familiarity with several additional languages, ancient and modern.General Examinations in the field of New Testament and Early Christianity follow the required structure of three written examinations (of three hours each) plus an oral examination prescribed by the Committee on the Study of Religion and the Faculty of Divinity. Ph.D. candidates are additionally required to take a fourth examination in Method and Theory; Th.D. candidates are strongly encouraged to include this examination as well. In conversation with his/her faculty examiners, the student will develop a bibliography tailored to the student’s interests that encompasses a breadth of relevant sources and scholarship. Such breadth should include ancient texts with a variety of religious affiliations and genres, and a geographical range in the Ancient Mediterranean world.In addition, invaluable assistance to the program is also given by faculty from cognate fields across Harvard’s Graduate Faculty of Arts and Sciences and throughout the Boston Theological Institute.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Honors Track:Religion 99a. Senior Seminar/ThesisReligion 99b. Senior Seminar/ThesisHonors Track:Religion 99a. Senior Seminar/ThesisReligion 99b. Senior Seminar/Thesis*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetIt may be possible to substitute other traditions or themes depending on faculty and course offerings.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    *Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetIt may be possible to substitute other traditions or themes depending on faculty and course offerings.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The oral examination is a chance for students to respond to comments provided by their thesis readers. In the oral exam students meet with their thesis readers and have a chance to address their questions or concerns. Oral exams are usually 1½ hours long and occur during late April or early May.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-tools*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Students are expected to complete the Ph.D. in five to seven years. Only in unusual cases can the program be completed in less than four-and-a-half academic years.Full time study is required during years one and two, which means 4 half-courses each term with a minimum of a "B" grade average. Students in the Ph.D. program register for courses through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Courses pertinent to their different areas of study may be found across departments and schools in the Harvard University Catalog. Courses not designated with an FAS course number, may be available for cross-registration. For tuition requirements, see the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Handbook or the GSAS Guide to Admission and Financial Aid.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Study in this field focuses on the philosophical interpretation and evaluation of religion, religions, belief and religious practice. Work in this area can be pursued in relation to European and American philosophy, the philosophical traditions of Asia, and/or comparative study. The faculty at Harvard has particular strength in modern 18th to 20th century American and European philosophy, post-structuralism, psychoanalysis, Indian philosophy and comparative philosophy of religion. Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
      Barker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781 | Fax: (617) 496-5798 | Email: csrel@fas.harvardCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    This field considers religion, gender and culture in their multiple senses, and in their relation to the study of the status and history of women, sexuality, and other markers of diversity. Courses and doctoral work on these topics, whether normative, descriptive, or practical, can be addressed from a wide variety of disciplinary perspectives. Faculty members in this field have particular strengths in feminist theory, queer theory, theology, history, literature, ethics, biblical studies, and post-colonial studies. These topics and approaches may be pursued in any religious tradition that has sufficient support on the faculty, and can also be studied in a comparative mode.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    *Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    This subfield trains specialists in the history of religious thought, institutions, movements, cultures, and practices within the Americas. Students are expected to explore not only the role of particular traditions but also the development of a tradition in other contexts, such as Europe or Africa, and the process of its transmission to the Americas. Candidates are expected to master both the historical and social scientific literatures in their areas of specialized research and to develop methodological expertise relevant to their dissertation work. Ordinarily, students in this subfield will participate in the bimonthly North American Religions Colloquium.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    This Ph.D. program is devoted to the study of Judaism and Christianity, each in light of the other and in light of the religions, cultures, and societies of the Roman Empire and the Near East in late antiquity (1st -5th centuries C.E.). The program is predicated on the assumption that a knowledge of Judaism is essential for a full understanding of the history of Christianity, that a knowledge of Christianity is essential for a full understanding of the history of Judaism, and that a knowledge of the Greco-Roman world, its culture, society, and institutions, is essential for all students of either ancient Judaism or ancient Christianity. Students will typically choose to concentrate in either Jewish or Christian materials. In their coursework students will be expected to take at least two courses on the history of the religions, cultures and societies of the Mediterranean world of late antiquity, and at least two courses that explore the interaction of Judaism and Christianity during the same period. Advanced knowledge of Greek or Hebrew is required for admission. Before taking the general examinations, students must demonstrate knowledge of the other language (Greek or Hebrew) at the intermediate level or above; as well as reading knowledge of two modern research languages (typically German and French). A third ancient language where relevant to the student’s interests (e.g. Latin, Coptic, Syriac) is highly recommended. The comprehensive examination will be tailored for each student, but the basic format is the same for all:Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    At Harvard, advanced programs of study involving religion may be arranged under many auspices. The Ph.D. under this Committee is in "The Study of Religion". Some candidates will find that they can best pursue their interests by becoming a candidate for the Ph.D. in such departments as Anthropology, Classics, History, East Asian or Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, Philosophy, or Sanskrit and Indian Studies. Likewise, some candidates may find the program for the M.T.S., M.Div., or Th.M. degree in the Harvard Divinity School more suitable for focusing their interests and strengthening their preparation for doctoral studies. The Committee reserves the right to advise the applicant to seek training in one of these alternative programs if in its judgment such a course would be in the applicant's interest.Fields of study, admissions, and requirements differ; applicants should indicate in their submission which field will be their primary specialization. If you indicate one of the fields marked below by an asterisk*, please specify the religious traditions(s) and/or approximate geographical range(s) or temporal period(s) from which the primary sources for your focus of inquiry will be drawn. You may also propose comparative work within any of these fields.For descriptions and related faculty, please refer to the corresponding field page under the Research section.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    In this section, we have listed a number of Frequently Asked Questions, included the Handbooks and various required forms for both the Undergraduate and Doctoral programs, and included a list of links to other schools, departments, and programs that may be pertinent to those interested in the study of religion.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The senior honors thesis is an opportunity to explore an area of interest in detail. Students who elect to write a thesis should regard it as the culmination of years of reading, analyzing, and making arguments about religion. As noted above, in order to be eligible to write a thesis, students must maintain a minimum average in the concentration of B+.Due to the nature of our field, the subject matter of religion theses varies widely. In all cases, individual theses should be specific enough to allow for depth of treatment, while not so narrowly construed that they lose sight of broader issues in the Study of Religion. This is particularly important because the readers of a given thesis are often drawn from a various fields within the Study of Religion. Depending on your concentration plan, your thesis may focus on a topic solely within one tradition; or it may involve two traditions, or one tradition and a theme, or (in the case of joint concentrations) one tradition and another academic field; or it may be focused on a single tradition but deal with an issue that involves the comparative study of religious phenomena from other religious traditions as well.For more information on the thesis, please refer to the Senior Honors Thesis Handbook in the below list of guides and handbooks.  All concentrators are expected to designate the general topic of the thesis by April of the junior year. A prospectus that has been approved and signed by the senior thesis Adviser is due in September of the senior year. The prospectus should include a tentative title, a two-page description of the specific subject matter, and a bibliography. One chapter of the thesis is due in November, another in December, and a third in February. The completed thesis, which should be 50-80 pages, is due in early March. For the complete schedule of dates for the current year, see the Senior Honors Thesis Handbook.The Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies oversees the thesis writing process and leads Rel 99, the senior tutorial on thesis-writing.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-toolsThe Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies has hard copies of many past theses that are available for students to borrow. Looking through old theses may stimulate ideas for a topic or give you ideas about how to organize or write your own thesis.Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Senior Tutorial (or Senior Seminar) is year-long, graded SAT/UNS, and it culminates in the completion and submission of the senior honors thesis. By April of the junior year, students should discuss their intention to pursue a thesis with the Director of Undergraduate Studies, the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, and relevant faculty members. If the student elects to write a thesis at this point, he or she should be able to articulate a general topic and have some idea who might serve as effective advisers for the project. Students are expected to speak with possible thesis advisers near the end of their junior year and, if possible, line up thesis advisers for the senior year. Students need to have both a graduate student and a faculty adviser. The Director of Undergraduate Studies and the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies often help in this process.During the senior year students are expected to meet with their graduate student advisers about once a week to discuss work in progress. They meet with faculty advisers less often, usually once a month. In order to receive SAT in Religion 99 for the fall term, students must submit two draft chapters of their senior thesis. Submission and acceptance of the senior thesis fulfills the SAT requirement for Religion 99 for the spring term.In addition to meeting with thesis advisers, which is a required part of Religion 99, senior thesis writers meet bi-weekly as a group to discuss and develop research and writing skills. This seminar is organized and run by the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies.Concentrators are encouraged to use these writing resources:The Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies has hard copies of many past theses that are available for students to borrow. Looking through old theses may stimulate ideas for a topic or give you ideas about how to organize or write your own thesis.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-toolsDirector of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Doctoral Studies in this area investigate the various South Asian religions, primarily Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, and Christianity (while a successful program of study that attends also to Jain or Sikh traditions is possible). Study can proceed from a variety of methodological perspectives, including history, theology, philosophy, literature, arts, and anthropology. Examples of ways that students may structure their studies include concentrating on a particular religious community or tradition (such as Hinduism), engaging in thematic study that crosses religious, cultural, and linguistic borders, exploring the complex interactions among various religious movement and traditions within South Asia in a particular period or in a particular region, or tracing the religious contours of the South Asian global diaspora. Students in South Asian Religious Traditions are expected to study the classical and/or modern languages relevant to their tradition-specific and thematic areas of focus.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Prospective students interested in doctoral work in religion may only apply for the Ph.D. program in the Study of Religion at Harvard University.The Th.D. program of the Harvard Divinity School was inaugurated in 1914 and the final cohort was admitted in 2014. The Committee on the Study of Religion continues to administer those students enrolled in the Th.D. program. The Th.D. program emphasizes the study of the literatures, languages, practices, and institutions that shape religious and theological traditions and thought from a range of methodological and theoretical perspectives. Although the Western humanistic traditions in their histories and their encounters with other cultures and religions, past and present, form the historic basis for the Th.D. at Harvard Divinity School, the program also offers the opportunity for students to engage in the study of varieties of geographical/historical complexes and religious traditions.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Study for the degree of Doctor of Theology extends through four stages: course-work, general examinations, prospectus, and dissertation. Candidates for this degree must fulfill the following:Two years of doctoral study in residence are required. During those two years, students must register for and complete at least four credit courses per term. A student must have achieved the minimum grade point average of "B" in each academic year and meet all regulations governing enrollment of incompletes.Student progress will be monitored by the doctoral subcommittee of the Committee on the Study of Religion in cooperation with each student’s advisor. Once the prospectus for the dissertation is approved, the dissertation shall be written under the supervision of one or more advisers approved by the Committee.All doctoral students must achieve at least intermediate reading competence in two modern languages of secondary scholarship relevant to their course of study (such as French, German, Japanese), in addition to whatever primary source languages are required in their field, either for textual or ethnographic study. The student and advisor shall consult to decide upon the two modern languages. All language requirements must be met before General Examinations are takenFirst-year students are required to take the Common Doctoral Seminar (HDS 4599). Its purpose is to introduce major questions and/or problems in the study of religion and to offer an opportunity for critical reflection on the nature and boundaries of religious and theological inquiry. In addition, students must take the graduate seminars required by their field of concentration, as well as other courses and seminars determined in consultation with an academic adviser.An oral second year review (one-and-one-half hours) occurs in the third, or at the latest, in the fourth semester of study. The purpose of this review is to consider and clarify the overall design and progress of a student’s academic program and to assess the student’s academic progress in general.After the satisfactory completion of two years of full-time study, all language requirements, required coursework, and the second year-review, a student prepares for the General Examinations. Th.D. students are normally expected take their General examinations by the end of their third year, except in special cases (e.g., Hebrew Bible and Comparative Religion) where deferment has been previously formally granted. The examination process includes three written exams and one oral exam arranged according to the student’s context of study and specialization. Students in Comparative Religion are required to sit for an additional written examination in Theory and Methods. Students in Hebrew Bible/Old Testament follow the exam rubric required by the Near Eastern Languages and Civilization Department.Within twelve months of passing the General Examinations, all candidates must submit a written dissertation prospectus of not more than 3000 words (plus bibliography), formulating a project. Upon formal approval of the prospectus, the student commences the writing of the dissertation. The length is limited to 300 pages. Once the dissertation is completed and approved by the adviser, the candidate must pass an oral dissertation defense with a committee of at least three faculty members before the Th.D. degree is awardedIf the thesis is deemed acceptable by the student's advisor and the Director of Th.D. Studies, the Standing Committee will appoint a committee for the oral defense. If the examining committee accepts the thesis and its defense, and the examination is sustained by the Standing Committee, the original and the first copy of the thesis in bound form, together with their abstracts, and an unbound, boxed copy for University Microfilms International, should be submitted to the Registrar, and a short summary, prepared for publication, should be submitted to the Editor of the Harvard Theological Review, prior to the awarding of the degree.At the discretion of the Doctoral Subcommittee, the calendar of requirements as noted above may be interrupted by a maximum of one year's leave of absence. The candidate must pay a $100 program fee during a year on leave.A student who has not met degree requirements or an established deadline may with the endorsement of the Director of Th.D. Studies be granted an extension, normally for one year.  Study for Degree of Doctor of Theology extends through four stages: General Examinations, Prospectus, Dissertation, and Dissertation Defense. All students in the Th.D. program at Harvard Divinity School must be making satisfactory progress in order to be eligible for any type of financial aid. [Note: Satisfactory progress includes being on “grace”, or warning, and students may keep their financial aid. Unsatisfactory progress, commonly known as “probation”, would lead to ineligibility for financial aid.] All candidates for this degree must fulfill the following provisions of satisfactory progress to be considered in good standing:Residence: Two years of doctoral study in residence with payment of full tuition are normally required. During those two years, students are required to register for and complete at least four credit courses per term. A student must have achieved the minimum grade point average of "B" in each academic year and have met the regulations governing enrollment with incompletes. Following payment of full tuition for two years, the student remains in residence but pays reduced tuition for the next two years. A student subsequently will be charged a Guidance and Facilities Fee for the remainder of his or her studies for the degree. During these periods of residence the student will be considered to be a full time enrolled student unless she or he is paying an Active File Fee for residence outside the Boston area. Supervision: During the student's residency up to approval of the Thesis Prospectus, his or her progress will be monitored by the Doctoral Subcommittee of the Standing Committee on the Study of Religion. Once the Prospectus is approved, the Dissertation shall be written under the supervision of one or more advisors approved by the Standing Committee.Language Requirements: A reading knowledge of two modern languages of scholarship and either Greek, Latin, of Hebrew is required before taking General Examinations. Courses and/or examinations in additional languages may be required by the department of field of concentration or for specific topics of the student's research and thesis. It is possible in some cases, upon petition to the Doctoral Subcommittee, for students to substitute another classical language for one of the above, if it is deemed crucial to the pursuit of their program.Modern Languages -- All doctoral students must achieve at least intermediate reading competence in two modern languages of secondary scholarship relevant to their course of study (such as French, German, Japanese), in addition to whatever primary source languages are required in their field. The student and adviser shall consult to decide upon the two modern languages.Classical Languages -- Candidates are expected to demonstrate their reading proficiency at an intermediate level in one fo the classical languages of scholarship relevant to the student's course of study (normally, Latin, Greek, Hebrew or Arabic). Please refer to the Student Handbook for specific language requirements and detailed information about language examinations.Second-Year Review: All students must participate in a Second-Year Review with at least two faculty members, to occur either in the third or, at the latest, in the fourth semester of study. The main purposes of the Second-Year Review are to consider and clarify the overall design and progress of a student’s academic program and to assess the student’s academic progress in general. Students participating in the Second-Year Review must submit the following, two weeks in advance, to the faculty participating in the review: 1) a two-page statement of academic purpose, and 2) two major course papers, one of which should be in the student’s major field and the other in a different field or discipline.Seminars: One graduate seminar in general theological studies (normally DIV 4599: CommonDoctor of Theology Seminar), directed by one or more members of the faculty and focusing on the reading and interpretation of theological literature is required before the General Examinations. In addition, candidates must take the one to three graduate seminars required for their field of concentration, as well as other courses and seminars determined in consultation with an academic advisor.General Examinations: By the end of the third year a student will ordinarily have passed general examinations or the departmental equivalent. Candidates are required to take General Examinations as follows: 1) Two three-hour written examinations in their field of concentration. 2) One three-hour written examination in a special topic chosen and defined by the candidate in consultation with faculty members. This special topic may lie within the area of concentration or may engage other fields of disciplines of academic studies. 3) An oral examination before a committee consisting normally of at least three members of the faculty. Except in special cases (e.g., Old Testament and Comparative Religion) where deferment has been previously formally granted, a prospective fourth-year student must have passed the General Examinations by the end of the third year. (Students in the field of Comparative Religion are required to take a fourth exam in Theory and Methods. Hebrew Bible students must take their General Exams in the Near Easter Languages and Civilization Department of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. See field guidelines for additional information.)Prospectus: Each candidate's prospectus must be submitted and approved by the standing committee within one year after passing the general examination. Twenty-five copies of the 3000-word prospectus, stating clearly the argument of the thesis and showing why it gives promise of making a contribution to learning, must be presented to the Standing Committee for its approval. The context of the problem and the student's acquaintance with the literature in the field should be indicated. The Standing Committee may vote to accept the prospectus, it may vote to accept the Prospectus provisional upon certain additions to be submitted to the full Committee, or it may ask to student to resubmit a drastically revised Prospectus. The Committee, unless it has reason to reject the prospectus, will then appoint a Prospectus Subcommittee, which will meet with the student and report back to the Standing Committee.Dissertation: The degree shall be awarded on the basis of the successful completion of a doctoral dissertation and its defense before a committee of the faculty. The dissertation shall be written under the supervision of an advisor approved by the Doctoral Subcommittee.Within twelve months of approval of the prospectus and each subsequent year during which a student is allowed to register, she or he must have produced at least one acceptable chapter of the dissertation, or the equivalent. Normally, a thesis should be submitted within two years of approval of the prospectus, but it must be submitted within seven years from the date of admission to the program. After seven years in the program, students may petition the Th.D. director for a one-year extension of time to complete the dissertation. No more than three such petitions for each student will be accepted. The length of the thesis is limited to a maximum of 300 pages, exclusive of bibliography. Three or more unbound copies of the thesis, typed in its final form, must be submitted in spring binders, by August 15 for receipt of the degree inNovember, by December 1 for its receipt in March, and by April 1 for its receipt at Commencement. A dissertation abstract, with a maximum length of 350 words, must be submitted with each copy.Thesis Defense: If the thesis is deemed acceptable by the Advisor and the Director of Th.D.Studies, the Standing Committee will appoint a Committee for the oral defense. If the examining committee accepts the thesis and its defense, and the examination is sustained by the Standing Committee, the original and first copy of the thesis in bound form should be submitted to the Registrar of Harvard Divinity School, prior to the awarding of the degree. (Please contact the HDS Registrar regarding requirements for electronic submission of a copy to the UMI Dissertation publishing site.)Leaves of Absence: At the discretion of the Doctoral Subcommittee the calendar of requirements as noted above may be interrupted by a maximum of one year's leave of absence.The candidate must pay a $100 program fee during a year on leave.Extensions: A student who has not met degree requirements or an established deadline may with the endorsement of the Director of Th.D. Studies be granted an extension, normally for one year.  For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The field of theology involves the self-understandings of faith and practice in historical, contemporary and comparative contexts. The faculty at Harvard has particular strength in Christianity, comparative theology and modern religious thought. Special attention is given to: analyses of the contexts, constraints, methods and genres of theological reflection; relationships among religious traditions; and modern critiques of religion.Recent and current dissertation topics include:Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The Sophomore Tutorial (Rel. 97) is a required seminar for all sophomores and new junior concentrators. Its purpose is to introduce students to different methods and theories in the Study of Religion. The course covers major themes and arguments that have defined the field—including, for example, arguments about the nature of religion, ritual, myth, scripture and culture. The sophomore tutorial will also help students narrow their range of interests, preparing them for more in-depth work in their junior and senior years. By the end of the sophomore year, students will have been introduced to the field and to the analytical tools scholars use to interpret religious phenomena.In the sophomore tutorial students will have opportunities to raise general questions and test ideas in a congenial, collaborative atmosphere. Responsibility for leading discussion is shared. The tutorial also helps to develop an esprit de corps among new members of the concentration.Writing is a key component of work in the sophomore tutorial; students submit short and medium-length papers and receive detailed feedback on style and content. Of course, the pursuit of clear expository writing will continue in later years, but the process begins in earnest sophomore year. Students should devote their full energies to keeping up with readings and assignments, and they should participate actively in discussions.*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Tutorials are the core of our program. They are designed as a sequence of small seminars focused on critical thinking and writing skills. They are our most important courses, and students should treat them as such. The Sophomore tutorial is usually taught by faculty members; junior tutorials are taught by advanced graduate students; and the senior tutorial involves faculty, graduate students, and the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies.Students entering the concentration late can make up Religion tutorials. Only in rare instances can they be replaced by other courses.The tutorial staff consists of faculty members and advanced graduate students who offer tutorials to juniors and seniors in the Study of religion. Because junior tutorials provide specialized, in-depth study of particular themes, texts, traditions, or time periods, tutors can offer tutorials in their expertise. An undergraduate may work with a junior tutor, or encounter a section leader in a large religion course, someone who shares his or her interests, and approach that person about being their senior thesis advisor.Along with members of the tutorial staff, teaching fellows and house tutors in religion gather regularly during the semester to discuss the teaching process and related issues like advising and grading. Occasionally, resource persons from the Writing Center, Bureau of Study Counsel, and the Bok Center for Teaching and Learning are invited to conduct these meetings and offer advice. All graduate students teaching in the religion concentration are requested to participate in workshops sponsored by the Bok Center for Teaching and Learning. In general, tutors and teaching fellows are an important resource for undergraduate concentrators, and we encourage students to seek their counsel.*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Harvard’s concentration in the Comparative Study of Religion is a vibrant community comprised of dynamic, devoted students and the nation’s most distinguished teaching faculty in the study of religion.  Students interact regularly with faculty and graduate students who share their interests. The program provides students with an understanding of the religious traditions of the world through study of sacred texts and rituals; philosophy, literature and theology; and the lived experiences and history of participants in the tradition.  Courses engage life’s biggest questions including the meaning of life and death, humanity and divinity, good and evil, sacrifice and community.  Course work exposes students to central concepts in the field such as god(s), ritual, gender, authority, orthodoxy, scripture and prophecy.  Anthropological, historical, philosophical, phenomenological, sociological and literary approaches open religion to closer analysis and deeper understanding.Students consistently rate our concentration and courses very highly.  Tutorials are small, tailored to student interests and designed to develop and refine students’ ability to analyze texts closely and to write coherently.  Close attention to excellent writing--through drafting, comments and revising--is a priority in our tutorial program. Concentrators pursue a wide range of careers after graduation, including business, law, medicine, politics, public service, scholarship, creative art and teaching.  Recent graduates are studying at Harvard Law School, teaching with Teach for America, pursuing graduate work at Cambridge University, practicing medicine and starring in television roles.  Our students consistently report back to us that the understanding of religion, the critical thinking skills, and the refined writing ability they gained in this concentration have been significantly important in making sense of current events and global politics, and in succeeding in their workplaces and local communities.  Most of our graduates have a strong interest in service to their communities and are committed to working in their chosen profession to make the world a better place. The Undergraduate section of this site reflects the information found in the Undergraduate Handbook, which is the standard reference work for requirements, rules, and advising procedures in the Study of Religion and it updated annually. Faculty advisers and tutorial leaders will assume students are familiar with it. Please read its contents carefully.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-tools*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetThese forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.It may be possible to substitute other traditions or themes depending on faculty and course offerings.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    While teaching is not required for the degree, it is considered integral to the program. As part of most offers of admission, doctoral students are guaranteed teaching fellowships in the third and fourth year for their living expenses. Students are encouraged to take advantage of these opportunities in courses found in the Study of Religion and other FAS departments, as well as in the Harvard Divinity School.Students are prioritized for teaching fellowship positions in years three and four. Normally first-year and second-year students may not teach. Students are expected to seek out teaching fellow positions by directly approaching faculty with whom they would like to work. Students should provide a resume and a brief statement of academic interests, as well as any experience and subject matter preferences. Students should inform the Program Administrator of courses they are pursuing and appointments offered to them.As of September 2016, GSAS updated their policy on teaching fellowships for cohort 2016 and forward. Please review the GSAS student handbook for details. Additionally, there are junior and senior tutorials in the undergraduate concentration (contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies) and other courses across Harvard, including “MOOC’s”, that offer teaching options at different schedules and compensations from routine teaching fellowship sections.First time teaching fellows are required to participate in the Bok Center orientation week training sessions, as well as: 1) Day 1 of the Fall Teaching Conference at the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning; 2) A workshop on Diversity in the Classroom such as the one on day 2 of the Bok Center for Teaching and Learning fall conference; 3) A departmental workshop on leading discussions (early in term); 4) A departmental workshop on grading and responding to student writing (early in mid-term.)The Study of Religion program workshops are organized each year by our Departmental Teaching Fellow, in addition to the training and workshops held throughout the year at the Bok Center. The Departmental Teaching Fellow maintains a website with extensive teaching information: http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/teachingfellows_studyofreligion/home and works with the CSR staff to coordinate several workshops during the year, as well as attends required events with the Derek Bok Center and holds regular office hours in Barker 408. That office is also available for working TFs to meet with students during the term; it may be reserved through the CSR office.Central Application for Teaching Sections or "CATS"Preliminary Course Catalog Listings (accessible to students and faculty) These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    After the satisfactory completion of two years of full-time study, the modern language requirements, the coursework outside the specialization, and the second year review, a students prepare for the General Examinations. Ph.D. students usually take these examinations by the end of the third year. All INC's should be resolved before General Examinations.Written examinations take place in October during fall term and in April during spring term. The Committee announces the exact dates six months ahead of time, and students must submit the "Notice of Intent to Take Ph.D. General Examinations in the Study of Religion", signed or confirmed via email by their advisor, by late September for spring term generals, or by late March for fall term generals. Bibliographies for each exam are also due at that time.The overall pattern of the written general examinations required of all Ph.D. students follows. The student should consult with his or her advisor in formulating the plan for the exams and deciding upon examiner(s) for each exam.1. Theory and Method in the Study of Religion2. Context of Study Exam (Religious Tradition or Historical Complex)3. Specialization within Context of Study4. Specialization within Context of StudyEach examination is taken in a 3-hour period, and each examination or part offers a choice of 2-3 questions. A 2-hour oral examination will be held within the two weeks following the written general exams. The examining committee for the oral normally consists of the faculty members who prepared written exams for a given student.Building on work done in Religion 2001 and 2002, the Theory and Method doctoral exam invites students to consider both the history of religious studies as a discipline and contemporary theoretical discussions about religion in relation to their own particular subfields. In replacing the old generic exam with this new, more theoretically driven and individually tailored exam, the Committee acts on the belief that students preparing themselves for professional lives in the study of religion need to have a clear sense of issues of current moment in the discipline; students must be able to frame the particulars of their research interests in the wider context of religious studies more generally, to enter the details of their own disciplines into broader conversations that cross particular subfields. Through this exam, we also seek to help students develop an understanding of the history of the study of religion, of the making of “religion” and “the religions” as categories of various sorts of inquiry from the early modern period to the present, in the context of wider intellectual, social and cultural history. In preparing for this exam, students are also encouraged to think about major historical and contemporary theorists of religion in the broader context of the social, cultural, and political history of knowledge from the Enlightenment to the present, and in particular in relation to the place of the construction of “religions” and “religion” in this history.The Theory and Method examination consists of three parts:Each student must chose a Theory and Method examiner and submit a reading list according to the Committee schedule. The student will work out in advance with the TM examiner particular problems or concerns for the student to concentrate on in his or her preparation. Examiners will be responsible for writing individually tailored examination questions, in consultation with the student.Working with an individual faculty member serves to make room for students to bring their own interests and concerns into current conversations in the discipline and to learn to view their own areas of specialization within the wider frame of the history of the study of religion. The Committee intends that students make their substantive areas of academic concern (the development of a particular ritual in Tibetan Buddhism, a problem of interpretation in Deuteronomy, a figure in American Catholic history, or an issue in Karl Barth’s theology, to cite some examples) the pivot of the theoretical learning and engagement that characterizes the new Theory and Method examination.Questions to pose in the task of working out specific foci for each part of the exam might include: how does a particular student’s research contribute to, participate in, or change the terms and orientations of contemporary conversations across the field? What is the specific history of their area of specialization (the intellectual history of the making of “Buddhism,” for instance) in its relationship to the broader cultural history of the study of religions? How do the theorists they have chosen to work on help them sharpen questions of religious analysis in their work?Committee on the Study of ReligionAdopted May 22, 2009These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    The prospectus is a proposal formulated by the student about the intended doctoral dissertation. Within, at most, twelve months of passing generals,the student is expected to submit a the prospectus. Acceptance of the prospectus by the Standing Committee constitutes a kind of contract by which the full Committee agrees that if the student completes a successful dissertation that is in accord with, or a reasonable development from, what the prospectus delineates, it will recommend the degree.It is the responsibility of the student to formulate, with as much advice and consultation as appropriate, a signifcant and worthwhile dissertation project that others will recognize as a solid contribution both to the chosen subfield and to the study of religion more generally. Each dissertation, in making a contribution to knowledge, should also illuminate our understanding of religion.The student must choose a member of the Harvard faculty to supervise the prospectus and two or three additional faculty members to serve on the prospectus committee. The supervisor will most likely, but not necessarily, be the advisor who has been overseeing the student’s program to that point.The prospectus is written for The Standing Committee on the Study of Religion as a whole, to whom it must be intelligible and cogent. Most Committee members will not be experts in the student's particular specialty. It should be no more than 3000 words double-spaced, excluding bibliography and notes. It is to be submitted electronically to the Program Administrator 2 weeks in advance of the Standing Committee meeting at which it will be considered.The CSR will accept prospectuses at all of its meetings up to and including the April meeting. If a larger number of prospectuses is received at the April meeting, some may be tabled and discussed at the May CSR meeting. NO NEW PROSPECTUSES WILL BE ACCEPTED FOR THE MAY MEETING.Advisors are expected to be involved actively in the development of the prospectus—especially with regard to its scope and purpose—and to guide the student through early drafts.When the prospectus is ready to be submitted to the Standing Committee, the student’s advisor should confirm that all of the formal guidelines for the prospectus have been met, by signing the "Prospectus Checklist", which is attached. If the student's advisor will not be able to attend the Standing Committee meeting in which the prospectus is being discussed, he or she should write a covering letter to the Chair of the Committee, indicating an evaluation of the project and a willingness to supervise the work. This letter also proposes two or three faculty members, in addition to the advisor, to serve as members of a prospectus committee. While the majority of the prospectus committee will be scholars in the  student's particular specialty, others outside his or her field might be included as well. The advisor should ascertain that these other scholars have read the draft of the prospectus, and be prepared to represent their views at the Standing Committee meeting.The Director of Graduate Studies or other appropriate faculty meets with doctoral students at the beginning of each academic year to discuss the prospectus process in detail.There will also be a discussion of the entire prospectus process among faculty at the beginning of each academic year in a CSR meeting. This discussion will review the ethos and culture of the process, including the responsibility of all CSR faculty to read each prospectus carefully in advance, with the larger expectation that all theses address issues in the Study of Religion. CSR members should alert the advisor to any substantive concerns one week in advance of the meeting. The advisor may suggest changes with the student before the prospectus comes before the committee. Although it is rarely necessary, the student may opt to withdraw the draft for later submission. It is important that these professors have read the draft and conveyed their thoughts to the student and main advisor before it is submitted to the CSR.Once the prospectus is submitted it will be considered, along with comments of the advisor, by the Standing Committee at its earliest scheduled meeting. When the CSR approves the prospectus, it also approves the thesis committee, on occasion making recommendations for additions or adjustments. In every case, the advisor is a member of the prospectus committee.Please note that additional substantive questions may be raised during the discussion of the prospectus at the CSR meeting; there is no obligation on the part of the Standing Committee to pass a prospectus. If a prospectus is turned back to the student for revisions, it will be resubmitted to the doctoral subcommittee for approval, including approval of the dissertation committee.Once the Standing Committee approves a prospectus, it will then refer it to the prospectus committee who will meet with the student to discuss the project in depth. Normally this is a two-hour meeting. The prospectus committee then reports back to the Standing Committee, recommending final approval of the proposal. In some cases the prospectus committee may indicate that it has asked the student to make some revisions and that it will delay its formal recommendation until they have been received. The prospectus committee, once its recommendation has been approved by the Standing Committee, is disbanded.The purpose of a prospectus is to enable students: (1) to clarify what they conceive to be the nature and significance of their prospective dissertation work, and (2) to receive constructive criticism, advice and approval from both the full Committee on the Study of Religion and members of a prospectus committee. Formulating a prospectus for the faculty represents a significant stage in the course of dissertation work, and its importance should not be underestimated. Not only does it allow students to come to a fuller and more adequate understanding of their own project; it also enlists the active support of the faculty who are expected to provide significant advice and criticism at this crucial stage in its development.While there are no well-established formulas or models for writing a prospectus, every prospectus should attend to the following issues:Topic and thesisThere is an important distinction between a topic and a thesis. A topic represents the issue which the dissertation addresses. A thesis constitutes the position which the student takes in relation to the topic; i.e., the central hypothesis which is to be examined.For example:In the prospectus, students should carefully circumscribe the topic of their dissertation, including historical and conceptual analyses of the topic (to the extent that such analyses clarify what the student takes to be at issue). The aim is not only to show how the dissertation will be done, but that the student is familiar enough with the topic that the project can be done and done within a reasonable timeframe. Students should be thinking about possible dissertation topics as they prepare for General exams, with the hope that the exam process will move easily into the writing of the prospectus.Sources, Method, and TheoryThe prospectus must also be clear about the sources upon which the dissertation will depend, the method/s the student will be using, and where appropriate, the theoretical resources that will be relevant to their work. In discussing method, it is especially important to attend to any special problems that might occur in the course of research and to note how these problems might be addressed.Contribution to ScholarshipStudents should specify as carefully as they can what they consider to be the various ways their project will contribute to the field of study in which they work. Students will include a brief statement of the current status of their topic within their larger field of study, to indicate the various problems at issue, and to show how their project will advance the discussion. Prospectuses are reviewed by the full Standing Committee and the concern of that committee includes the extent to which dissertation work can be understood to contribute not only to particular fields of study but also to the broader study of religion, continuing the intellectual work begun in Religion 2001 and 2002. Students are encouraged to articulate the contribution of their research to a future horizon of the community concerned with the study of religion in connection to the received heritage of religious studies and on contemporary discussions and debates, as topic and thesis are formulated and developed and as the worth of the project for scholarship is stated.Chapter OutlineThe prospectus must provide an outline of the chapter divisions and a brief description of how the argument will be developed from chapter to chapter.BibliographyThe prospectus must include a brief bibliography indicating the principal primary and secondary sources upon which the thesis is expected to be based - it need not be exhaustive, but representative.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Upon formal approval of the prospectus, the student commences the writing of the dissertation. Following the approval of the prospectus, one chapter per year of the dissertation must be submitted to the advisor. The length of dissertations is limited to a maximum of approximately 75,000 words or 300 pages, exclusive of bibliography. Permission to exceed this length may be granted by the Doctoral Subcommittee or the Chairman at the request of the dissertation advisor. Once the dissertation is completed and approved by the advisor, the degree candidate is examined orally by a committee of at least three faculty readers, two of whom must be members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. In practice, any member of HDS faculty who is eligible to serve on the Standing Committee in the Study of Religion is authorized to sign Dissertation Acceptance Certificates as FAS members. Any faculty members from other schools at Harvard who have held or currently hold appointments in the CSR are authorized to sign Dissertation Acceptance Certificates as FAS members.Please review this comprehensive guide to degree submission, form of dissertation, and electronic submisssion to Registrar: Dissertations: A Guide to Preparing and Submitting Your Dissertation.The entire Ph.D. program should not exceed seven years. Students who do not complete the degree in seven years must petition the Committee for an extension of time in the program. Petitions may be made only for one year at a time. In such a petition, the student and the dissertation advisor must present evidence of reasonable and substantial progress as well as a timetable for completion of the dissertation. Extensions will not be granted beyond the tenth year.When you are within reach of completing your dissertation draft, your dissertation advisor should write a letter to the Standing Committee proposing an examining committee. The advisor’s letter should be received at least one week prior to the Standing Committee meeting at which it would be considered. Please check the website calendar for meeting dates of the Standing Committee or contact the office of the Study of Religion for dates in order that you and your advisor may plan the timing of submission and defense. The final dissertation draft must be submitted directly to each reader and to the Study of Religion Office. Once the examining committee is in place, a date for the dissertation defense will be set. In anticipating a defense date, keep in mind that your readers may need up to six weeks of reading time. You will need to prepare a dissertation abstract, not to exceed 350 words, prior to the dissertation defense. This document is required for publication in Dissertation Abstracts International.Prior to your defense, the Program Administrator will prepare and deliver to the Chair of your committee your Dissertation Acceptance Certificate (DAC). If no revisions are required, or as soon as any and all revisions are completed, and all examiners have signed the DAC, it should be returned to the Study of Religion office. The completed DAC will be scanned for the student and for the office; the original will be delivered to the Registrar’s Office.Upon submission of the electronic copy of the dissertation, you will be required to submit a signed University Microfilms International form (included in the Registrar’s online submission tool).Degree Applicant Deadlines - The submission and application dates are generally the same each year. Students must check for the current deadlines, as late submissions are not accepted. The previous year’s dates can be used as a guide for planning, until a current year’s deadlines are posted.Throughout your doctoral program, you must be registered as a full-time student. You may register in various ways depending on your location, financial needs and progress to degree. Please review the Non-Resident option in the GSAS Student Handbook. If you need to interrupt your program, you may register for a Leave of Absence by application to GSAS. Students may also benefit from the Exchange Scholar Program, which allows for registration with a select group of schools which participate in the program with Harvard GSAS.An application for degree must be submitted by the deadline indicated in the Degree Calendar for a student to receive a degree from a GSAS degree program on one of the three annual degree conferral dates. Please refer to the current guidelines for preparation and submission of the dissertation in the GSAS Handbook.Online submission of the dissertation is required by the Graduate School. Please review the submission details found on the FAS Registrar’s site. No exceptions are granted for late submissions, nor are improperly formatted submissions accepted. Carefully review the formatting guidelines - you are responsible for proper formatting of the required documents.The signed, original Dissertation Acceptance Certificate following must be submitted to the Registrar’s Office by 5:00 PM on the dissertation deadline date. No exceptions are allowed.March degree candidates: the last term of enrollment is the fall term; do not register for spring.May degree candidates: the last term of enrollment is the spring term.November degree candidates: the last term of enrollment is the previous spring term.Students who do not deposit a dissertation by the deadline, must register for the fall term. Please see the current degree calendar on in the GSAS Handbook. Deadlines for health coverage selections may differ from degree submission deadlines; it is your responsibility to plan accordingly.In addition to academic requirements, students are required to meet the financial requirements for the degree. For details please review the Financial Aid & Requirements section of the GSAS Handbook.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Upon formal approval of the prospectus, the student commences the writing of the dissertation. Following the approval of the prospectus, at least one chapter of the dissertation per year must be submitted to the advisor. The dissertation should be completed within two years after the approval of the prospectus, but not later than seven years from the date of admission to the program. The length of the dissertation is limited to a maximum of 300 pages, exclusive of bibliography.When the student is close to being ready to defend, the advisor writes a letter to the Chair of the Standing Committee proposing the dissertation examining committee. The examining committee will consist of at least three faculty readers, two of whom must be members of HDS. Members or past members of the Standing Committee of the Study of Religion are considered de facto as members of HDS. Membership of the examining committee must be approved by the Standing Committee.Once the examiners have been approved and the student has completed the dissertation, a two-hour oral defense will be arranged. It is the student’s responsibility to provide the examiners with copies of the dissertation by the dates stipulated in the current year’s Information on Submission of the Dissertation (usually around August 15 for receipt of the degree in November, by December 1 for receipt of the degree in March , and by April 1 for receipt of the degree in June).Th.D. dissertations follow the same formatting guidelines as Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences dissertations.  For more information please refer to the GSAS “Form of the PhD Dissertation” page.  Note that title pages for HDS dissertations differ slightly from GSAS dissertations.  Please refer to the example in the Th.D. Handbook.Also, please see the ThD Program Administrator for the current Information on Submission of the Dissertation for Th.D. Candidates when you get close to finishing. This lists specific dates for the submission of Degree Applications, the final Draft, and the last possible defense dates for the November, March, and June Degrees.*If a student's leaves Harvard when the student is at the dissertation stage, that advisor may serve as the main advisor for one year after departure. After one year, students must find a Harvard affiliated advisor. The departed faculty member may continue to serve on the dissertation committee and informally act as co-advisor. “Normally, a thesis should be submitted within two years of approval of the prospectus, but it must be submitted within seven years from the date of admission to the program.”In spring 2002, the members of the Standing Committee of the Committee on the Study of Religion and the Faculty of the Divinity School voted to accept an addition to this policy which states:“After seven years in the Th.D. program, students may petition the Th.D. Director for a one-year extension of time to complete the dissertation. No more than three such petitions for each student will be accepted. Th.D. students will not be permitted to register beyond their tenth year in the Divinity School. However, exceptions to this rule may be made for students who have taken maternity or parental leave or for students with other special circumstances. Students are free to apply for readmission to the Divinity School, so as to re-register for the purpose of receiving the degree, when their thesis is completed. Students no longer enrolled because of this policy will have the status of ‘withdrawn.’”Please note: This regulation will indeed be strictly enforced. If you are beyond your seventh year in the program, regardless of any Leave of Absences taken, please make sure to submit your petition (addressed to the Th.D. Director, sent care of the Th.D. Administrator) as early as possible in the Spring. If a student is not making "satisfactory progress" towards the fulfillment of the requirements for the Th.D. program in the Study of Religion (as this matter is understood in the Harvard Divinity School Catalog), then the Doctoral Subcommittee of the Standing Committee of the Study of Religion is charged to take the following actions which are meant to prompt the student to rectify the deficiencies in his or her program of study but which will end in the termination of the candidacy of the student in the doctoral program if these deficiencies are not rectified:If the student is reinstated, his or her continued status in the doctoral program will be determined by the student's ability to follow the proposed plan of action and to keep to the time schedule which it contains. A student's candidacy in the doctoral program may be terminated again if he or she is unable to meet the stipulations of his or her proposed plan of action. For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Within, at most, twelve months of passing generals, every doctoral candidate is expected to submit a Dissertation Prospectus. The prospectus is a proposal formulated by the student about the doctoral dissertation that he or she intends to write. Acceptance of the prospectus by the Standing Committee constitutes a kind of contract by which the full Committee agrees that if the student completes a successful dissertation that is in accord with, or a reasonable development from, what the prospectus delineates, it will recommend the degree. The responsibility of the student to formulate, with as much advice and consultation as seem appropriate, a dissertation project that seems to him or her significant and worthwhile, and that others will recognize as a solid contribution both to his or her subfield and to the study of religion more generally. In this regard please refer to the section below, On Drafting a Dissertation Prospectus, and keep well in mind the following statement in the Supplement: "Each dissertation, in making a contribution to knowledge, should also illuminate our understanding of religion."Each student must choose a member of the Harvard faculty to supervise the writing of the prospectus. Such a faculty member will most likely, but not necessarily, be the advisor who has been supervising the student‘s program to that point. The student must also propose two or three other faculty members to serve on his or her prospectus committee. It is important that these professors have also READ the draft and conveyed their thoughts to the student and main advisor before it is submitted to the CSR.In composing the prospectus the student should be mindful that he or she is writing it for The Standing Committee on the Study of Religion as a whole, to whom it must be intelligible and cogent. Most Committee members will not be experts in the student's particular specialty.The prospectus should be brief (not more than 3000 words, excluding bibliography and notes; a model title page is enclosed), and must be double-spaced. It is to be submitted electronically to the Ph.D. Program Administrator 2 weeks in advance of the Standing Committee meeting at which it will be considered. The student should submit 25 hard copies of the prospectus to the CSR two days before the meeting at which it will be considered for approval.The CSR will accept prospectuses at all of its meetings up to and including the April meeting. If a larger number of prospectuses is received at the April meeting, some may be tabled and discussed at the May CSR meeting. No new prospectuses will be accepted for the May meeting. Advisors are expected to be involved actively in the development of the prospectus—especially with regard to its scope and purpose—and to guide the student through early drafts.When the prospectus is ready to be submitted to the Standing Committee, the student’s advisor should confirm that all of the formal guidelines for the prospectus have been met, by signing the "Prospectus Checklist". If the student's advisor will not be able to attend the CSR meeting in which the prospectus is being discussed, he or she should write a covering letter to the CSR Chair of the Committee, indicating an evaluation of the project and a willingness to supervise the work. This letter also proposes two or three faculty members, in addition to the advisor, to serve as members of a prospectus committee. While the majority of the prospectus committee will be scholars in the student's particular specialty, others outside his or her field might be included as well. The advisor should ascertain that these other scholars have read the draft of the prospectus, and be prepared to represent their views at the CSR meeting.The advisor may discuss changes with the student before the prospectus comes before the committee; although it is rarely necessary, the student may opt to withdraw the draft for later submission, for example. The DGS or other appropriate faculty meets with doctoral students at the beginning of each academic year to discuss the prospectus process in detail.There will also be a discussion of the entire prospectus process among faculty at the beginning of each academic year in a CSR meeting. This discussion will review the ethos and culture of the process, including the responsibility of all CSR faculty to read each prospectus carefully in advance, with the larger expectation that all theses address issues in the Study of Religion.CSR members are strongly encouraged to alert the advisor to any substantive concerns one week in advance of the CSR meeting in which his or her advisee’s prospectus is discussed. (This recommendation does not discourage robust discussion and possible rejection of the prospectus at the CSR meeting.)Once the prospectus is submitted, it will be considered, along with comments of the advisor, by the Standing Committee at its earliest scheduled meeting. When the CSR approves the prospectus, it also approves the thesis committee, on occasion making recommendations for additions or adjustments. In every case, the advisor is a member of the prospectus committee.Please note that additional substantive questions may be raised during the discussion of the prospectus at the CSR meeting; there is no obligation on the part of the Standing Committee to pass a prospectus.If a prospectus is turned back to the student for revisions, it will be resubmitted to the doctoral subcommittee for approval and approval of the thesis committee.Once the Standing Committee approves a prospectus, it will then refer it to the prospectus committee who will meet with the student to discuss the project in depth. Normally this is a two-hour meeting. The prospectus committee then reports back to the Standing Committee, recommending final approval of the proposal. In some cases the prospectus committee may indicate that it has asked the student to make some revisions and that it will delay its formal recommendation until they have been received. The prospectus committee, once its recommendation has been approved by the Standing Committee, is disbanded.The purpose of a prospectus is to enable students: (1) to clarify what they conceive to be the nature and significance of their prospective dissertation work, and (2) to receive constructive criticism, advice and approval from both the full Committee on the Study of Religion and members of a prospectus committee. Formulating a prospectus for the faculty represents a significant stage in the course of dissertation work, and its importance should not be underestimated. Not only does it allow students to come to a fuller and more adequate understanding of their own project; it also enlists the active support of the faculty who are expected to provide significant advice and criticism at this crucial stage in its development.While there are no well-established formulas or models for writing a prospectus, every prospectus should attend to the following issues:1. Topic and thesis. There is an important distinction between a topic and a thesis. A topic represents the issue which the dissertation addresses. A thesis constitutes the position which the student takes in relation to the topic; i.e., the central hypothesis which is to be examined. For example:Topic: Barth’s theological methodThesis: Barth's theological method results from his interpretation of the Word of God as an act which is not subject to human manipulation.In the prospectus, students should carefully circumscribe the topic of their dissertation, including historical and conceptual analyses of the topic (to the extent that such analyses clarify what the student takes to be at issue). The aim is not only to show how the dissertation will be done, but that the student is familiar enough with the topic that the project can be done and done within a reasonable amount of time. The CSR strongly recommends that students be thinking about possible dissertation topics as they work on their General exams, with the hope that the exam process will move easily, and fairly expeditiously, into the writing of the prospectus.2. Sources, Method, and Theory. The prospectus must also be clear about the sources upon which the dissertation will depend, the method(s) the student will be using, and where appropriate, the theoretical resources that will be relevant to their work. Consequently, in discussing method, it is especially important to attend to any special problems that might occur in the course of research and to note how these problems might be addressed.3. Contribution to scholarship. Students should specify as carefully as they can what they consider to be the various ways their project will contribute to the field of study in which they work. In particular, it is helpful to a brief statement of the current status of their topic within their larger field of study, to indicate the various problems at issue, and to show how their project will advance the discussion. It is also important to know that prospectuses are read by the full Standing Committee before they are considered by Prospectus Committees and that the concern of the members of the full Committee, with respect to this aspect of the prospectus, is the extent to which dissertation work can be understood to contribute not only to particular fields of study but also to the broader study of religion, continuing the intellectual work begun in Religion 2001 and 2002. Students are encouraged to articulate the contribution of their research to a future horizon of the community concerned with the study of religion in connection to the received heritage of religious studies and on contemporary discussions and debates, as topic and thesis are formulated and developed and as the worth of the project for scholarship is stated.4. Chapter Outline. The prospectus must also provide an outline of the projected chapter divisions and a brief description of how the argument will be developed from chapter to chapter.5. Bibliography. In addition the prospectus should include a brief bibliography indicating the principal primary and secondary sources upon which the theses is expected to be based. This need not be exhaustive, but representative.Revised November 2011  For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Th.D. students are required to take general examinations as follows:Please note the following special cases:Please consult “The Recommendations and Rules for the PhD and ThD General Examinations” for additional information.General exams are usually given in the middle two weeks of October and April. Students taking Spring Generals must file their "Notice of Intent to Take Generals" by an October deadline. Students taking the fall Generals must file their "Notice of intent to Take Generals" by a late March Deadline. The program office will send eligible students a reminder with the "Notice of Intent" form and a reminder of the exact deadline.Students planning on taking Generals should meet with their advisors to discuss the areas in which they will be examined and the corresponding bibliographies (it's a good idea to begin thinking about and discussing these bibliographies even earlier in your program). Students then return the "Notice of Intent" together with the bibliographies to the Study of Religion Office by the deadline specified. The "Intent" form must be signed by a student's advisor. Each of the bibliographies must be signed by the examiner(s) responsible for that exam. The Director of Th.D. Studies reviews each proposal before approving a student taking Generals.As you approach your exam, the program administrator will be happy to provide advice, support, and information as needed.** The Th.D. program progress guidelines specify that all language requirements must be met and all incomplete coursework must be finished before a student is allowed to take general exams. These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Doctoral students are encouraged to take advantage of the many opportunities for teaching at Harvard. These opportunities include teaching in Religion courses, in Divinity School courses, in Core or Gen Ed courses, in courses in other FAS departments, and in junior and senior tutorials in the undergraduate concentration. Generally students who wish to teach are able to secure positions. In addition to its financial benefits, teaching is considered integral to the program of doctoral studies in religion at Harvard.Students may begin teaching in the third year. Normally first-year and second-year students are not allowed to teach. Students should seek out teaching fellow positions by approaching faculty with whom they would like to work. It is helpful to give them a resume with a cover letter indicating experience and subject matter preferences. To serve as a tutor in the undergraduate program, contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies in the Study of Religion. In addition, you may apply for teaching fellow opportunities at the Divinity School through Kathryn Kunkel, ThD Administrator, Barker 413.Teaching fellow training and workshops are held throughout the year at the Bok Center for Teaching and Learning. First time teaching fellows are required to participate in the Bok Center orientation week training sessions. In addition, teaching fellow workshops focusing on the study of religion are held throughout the year. Among these, certain sessions will be required for first-time Teaching Fellows, including an HDS Workshop on their course websites and other IT issues. The Departmental Teaching Fellow coordinates these, with the ThD and PhD Program Administrators; any of them may be contacted about the schedule, which will be posted on the TF website.For Th.D. Program Forms, click here.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    In order to gain Committee approval of work to be done outside the specialization, the student must, in consultation with the advisor, submit a Plan of Study during their first term by early November (see forms). The Director of Graduate Studies will review and act upon the proposals received. Any later alterations in plans should be duly reported with an updated Plan of Study.Full-time study during the first two years (4 half-courses per each term; a total of 16) with a minimum average grade of B, is required. Included in these course requirements are:It is expected that students will complete satisfactorily all basic courses, including those classical languages within their area of specialization, needed to lay the foundation for advanced work. These will vary from person to person and field to field. Students are asked to participate in the activities of their fields, particularly the colloquia.If, in the estimation of the faculty instructor of instructors of Religion 2001 or Religion 2002, academic problems arise in any enrolled student’s performance during the course of a semester, it is expected that instructors will follow the sequence below: If, within a reasonable time frame agreed on by the discussants, the student fails to improve performance to the degree that the instructors view that the student should not continue as an enrolled member of the seminar, but should consider alternatives (such as taking the seminar a different year, or more drastically, reconsider continuation in the doctoral program), there must be an independent review of this assessment by the Doctoral Sub-Committee before the student is compelled to withdraw from the seminar.Satisfactory completion of a minimum of two additional courses outside the specialization is required. These are normally in another tradition, geographical-historical complex, or methodology than the student’s primary focus. The two courses should be in the same area and completed before the general examinations are taken. This expected "distribution" of courses in the student's first two years constitutes the minimum amount of course work required, and is designed to assure that a degree of balance between the specialized and general components of a student's program of study is maintained. At the same time it will serve to help the student prepare for the Theory and Methods General Examination that is required at a later stage.When a student has already done substantial advanced work, he or she may include one half-course per semester of Religion 3001. Reading and Research with the approval of an appropriate faculty member.Post-generals students (generally after year 4) engaged in dissertation work will normally register for one, two, three or four half-courses of Religion 3000: Direction of Doctoral Dissertation, in addition to whatever other regular course-work they may take in a given semester. While any number of Religion 3000 and Religion 3001 half-courses may serve to fulfill in part the degree course requirements, units of TIME (TIME-C, TIME-R, or TIME-T) will not.TIME-C (time for course-related reasons) is to be used only for preparation for general examinations, normally during the one or two terms leading up to the anticipated time of generals, but not before the fifth term. The only exception to this is in the case of a student who takes the generals in the fourth or fifth term, in which case, TIME-C may be appropriate in the fourth or even third term. Please refer to the GSAS Student Handbook or consult the Program Administrator if you have questions about TIME-C.All Ph.D. Teaching Fellows will be expected to register for one half-course of TIME-T (time for Teaching) per 1/5 teaching time equivalent per semester, irrespective of their stage of progress or year of study in the program. Note that 1/5 is typically one section in a course.Any Ph.D. student hired as a Research Assistant will be expected to register for one half-course of TIME-R (time for Research Assistant reasons) per 1/5 research time equivalent per semester, normally 7 to 10 hours a week. Note that the Time-R work is research for someone else (i.e. a faculty member), not for the student’s own research.  1. All doctoral students—in consultation with their advisors—achieve at least intermediate reading competence in two modern languages of secondary scholarship relevant to their course of study (such as French, German, Japanese), in addition to whatever primary source languages are required in their field. (Note that languages needed for ethnographic or other research, requiring verbal competence, are for primary scholarship and thus cannot be used as one of the modern languages of secondary scholarship.)2. The requirement in modern languages of scholarship commonly taught and examined at Harvard University (French, German, Spanish, etc.) can be met either by achieving a grade of B+ or better in two semesters of a second-year language course (in either HDS or FAS); by receiving a grade of A- or better in the Harvard Divinity School one-semester advanced intermediate language courses in French and German; or by achieving a “high pass” on an HDS qualifying exam. (Note: receiving A- or better in the HDS Summer Language Program does not meet the requirement – the exam must still be taken.) Students whose first language is not English may meet the requirement with a “pass” on the language exam.3. In the case of modern languages of scholarship for which there is not an intermediate two-semester course at Harvard or a qualifying exam at HDS, the number of years required to achieve “intermediate reading competence” and the equivalent of “high pass” on language examinations will be determined by faculty in the relevant field. This involves an exam comparable to the HDS qualifying exam: translating a text of moderate difficulty in a one-hour exam with one dictionary, using a text of religious or historical significance or a scriptural text. The student should consult the Ph.D. Administrator or Director of Graduate Studies to arrange the administration of the exam.4. All language requirements must be met before General Exams are taken.(Ph.D. and Th.D. Language Requirement, adopted Spring 2011)Students having extraordinary difficulty in passing language requirements are encouraged to contact both the Program Administrator and the Faculty Director of Language Testing.Language exams taken as a student in a Masters program at HDS may be used to fulfill the language requirement if the required grade of High Pass was achieved. However, final exam results for the language courses in the Summer Language Program or the full-year German tutorial are not acceptable; doctoral students must take the official language exam. Language competency exams are given three times a year: early September, late January and late April. A “High Pass” on a language exam attests that a student has sufficient knowledge and skill to use the language in scholarship. Some mistakes in recognizing grammar or vocabulary are allowed if they do not seriously undermine the student's ability to understand and translate the text. During the one-hour exam, students are asked to translate a one to two page text of intermediate difficulty. Students may use a dictionary.Language exams are normally given for Hebrew, Greek, Latin, German, French, Arabic and Spanish. Students who need to be tested in another language should consult the Faculty Director of Language Studies at HDS.If you have any preparation in the required languages, you are strongly urged to sign up for and take one or more of the language qualifying exams given in early September of your first year. You may pass the exam, but even if you do not, you will be much better prepared to choose an appropriate course or study on your own before trying again. A failure is recorded on your internal record sheet, but is never released on a transcript.Ph.D. students may qualify for a limited number of tuition waivers for summer language courses offered in FAS during the summers immediately preceding and following their first year. Students admitted after fall of 2015 qualify for tuition, program and application fee waivers for enrollment in the HDS Summer Language Program. It is advisable to do coursework prior to the HDS qualifying exam. Copies of prior exams are available from the HDS Registrar.Eligibility: Students applying to take Religion 3002. Foreign Language Certification to fulfill the language requirement should first have: 1) attempted the Language Qualifying Exam (HDS) and been unsuccessful, and 2) prepared to re-take the language qualifying exam by completing course work at HarvardApplying: A student first must consult with and have permission of 1) the primary advisor, 2) the Faculty Director of Language Studies (HDS), and 3) the proposed instructor of the course.After this initial approval, and before registering for the course, the student should submit a list of readings to the instructor of the course and to the Faculty Director of Language Studies for their approval. It is the student's responsibility to collect the readings, in consultation with the instructor and the Faculty Director of Language Studies if necessary, and to provide copies of the approved list to both these faculty members. Procedure for certification of coursework: After completion of the readings, the instructor administers an exam (preferably written; oral with permission) and evaluates the student’s ability to translate. The instructor submits the results to the Faculty Director of Language Studies for certification. The results may take one of two forms: corrected translations or a brief letter describing the translation and the testing method.After receiving the evaluation material, the Faculty Director of Language Studies informs the Program Administrator of the evaluation. The instructor reports a grade of “SAT” to the Registrar for recording on the student’s transcript. The main purpose of the Second Year Review is to consider and clarify the overall design and progress of a student’s academic program. There are usually two faculty reviewers: one in the student’s field of specialization, normally the advisor, and one outside the student’s field. A second purpose is to assess the student’s academic progress in general and in regard to the particular program requirements for degree. A third purpose of the Second Year Review is to review the fields that the student is proposing to cover on the General Examinations. The Second Year Review should, as needed, lead to any or some of the following recommendations: clarify a timetable for completing any remaining requirements, specify any further coursework, address any issues in advising, and clarify the fields and timetable for General Examinations. A written summary of all such recommendations should be sent to the student as soon as possible after the review and provided to the Program Administrator for the student record.A student participating in the Second Year Review must submit two major course papers to their reviewers; one in the specialization, and one outside their field or discipline, as well a a 1 to 2-page statement of academic purpose. One paper may be from a course taken with one of the reviewers, but the second paper should be from a course taken with some other faculty member, not a reviewer.When ready, the student submits to the Program Administrator an "Intent to Take Second Year Review" form. On this form, the review committee and papers are proposed by the student and the advisor, as well as semester to be taken. The review is to occur either in the third or the fourth semester of study.The student should schedule a time for the review with the two faculty reviewers and notify the Program Administrator of the meeting date and time. The review normally is 1 to 1 ½ hours. The two papers, a copy of the statement of purpose and an updated review form must be submitted to both reviewers, and the Program Administrator, at least two weeks prior to the meeting.In the Study of Religion students are only admitted for the Ph.D. program; no one is admitted as a candidate for the A.M. Nevertheless, the requirements for the master’s degree must be satisfied by all students as they move toward the doctorate, and are expected to be completed by the end of the fourth term.The requirements for the A.M. degree are:For students who take a terminal A.M., a second year review is not required. The A.M. degree may be granted when these requirements are fulfilled. In order to receive the degree, Ph.D. students may log in to my.harvard, request a Master’s in Passing, and apply as soon as their requirements are complete and recorded.These forms are for students who are *enrolled* in the Ph.D. program. Do *not* request access if you are applying to the Ph.D. program.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Many of these organizations have their own events calendars and mailing lists. We do not usually repeat events from the mailing lists of other organizations in our own newsletter, so if you are interested in staying up to date, you are encouraged to subscribe to the appropriate mailing list.Harvard Divinity SchoolCenter for the Study of World Religions at the Harvard Divinity SchoolWomen's Studies in Religion Program at the Harvard Divinity SchoolReligions and the Practice of Peace InitiativeMahindra Humanities CenterThe Pluralism Project Weatherhead Center for International AffairsThe Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Islamic Studies ProgramDumbarton Oaks Research Library and CollectionHarvard University Center For Middle Eastern StudiesHarvard University South Asia InstituteHarvard University Asia Center Reischauer Institute of Japanese StudiesFairbank Center for Chinese StudiesHutchins Center for African and African American ResearchCommittee on Inner Asia and Altaic StudiesHarvard Buddhist Studies ForumHarvard Chaplains You may submit forms by email, mail or fax. If you are a visitor, the Student & Visitor Reimbursement Form and a W-9 are required.*Paper clips please - thank you! FAS ClassroomsSchedules classroom and event spaces outside of departmental rooms. Rooms can be requested and viewed via RoomBook. Questions: classrms@fas.harvard.edu The Study of Religion  Barker Center CSR Seminar Room (403), small meeting room (303), or teaching fellow office (408). Priority is given to CSR courses and faculty, then section meetings, followed by one-time events (both internal and external) Contact Staff Assistant: csrel@fas.harvard.eduBarker Center Special EventsThe Thompson Room (Barker 110) is the large gathering space on the 1st floor. It is scheduled via RoomBook. View the Inventory of Classroom SpacesSelect "Browse by Buildings" for the quickest views.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Many of these organizations have their own events calendars and mailing lists. We do not usually repeat events from the mailing lists of other organizations in our own newsletter, so if you are interested in staying up to date, you are encouraged to subscribe to the appropriate mailing list.Harvard Divinity SchoolCenter for the Study of World Religions at the Harvard Divinity SchoolWomen's Studies in Religion Program at the Harvard Divinity SchoolReligions and the Practice of Peace InitiativeMahindra Humanities CenterThe Pluralism Project Weatherhead Center for International AffairsThe Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Islamic Studies ProgramDumbarton Oaks Research Library and CollectionHarvard University Center For Middle Eastern StudiesHarvard University South Asia InstituteHarvard University Asia Center Reischauer Institute of Japanese StudiesFairbank Center for Chinese StudiesHutchins Center for African and African American ResearchCommittee on Inner Asia and Altaic StudiesHarvard Buddhist Studies ForumHarvard Chaplains*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-toolsDirector of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetCommittee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Aisha M. Beliso-De Jesus Read more  about Michael D. Jackson Read more  about Ousmane Oumar Kane Read more  about Ali S. Asani Read more  about Jacob Olupona
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about James Robson Read more  about Leonard W. J.  van der Kuijp Read more  about Charles Hallisey Read more  about Janet Gyatso Read more  about Ryûichi Abé Read more  about Parimal G. Patil
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	 Read more  about Diana Eck Read more  about Francis X. Clooney Read more  about Michael D. Jackson Read more  about Kimberley Patton Read more  about Anne E.  Monius Read more  about William A. Graham Read more  about Luis M. Girón Negrón Read more  about Parimal G. Patil
	PhD, University of Chicago, the Department of AnthropologyMichael Puett is a Professor of Chinese History in the 
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about James Robson Read more  about Helen Hardacre Read more  about Ryûichi Abé
	PhD, University of Chicago, the Department of AnthropologyMichael Puett is a Professor of Chinese History in the 
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	 Read more  about Francis Schüssler Fiorenza Read more  about Arthur Kleinman Read more  about David C. Lamberth Read more  about Jonathan L. Walton
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Kevin J Madigan Read more  about David N. Hempton Read more  about Luis M. Girón Negrón
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Leila Ahmed Read more  about Baber Johansen Read more  about Ousmane Oumar Kane Read more  about Roy Mottahedeh Read more  about Ahmed RagabMalika Zeghal is the Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Professor in Contemporary Islamic Thought and Life in the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Read more  about William A. Graham Read more  about Ali S. Asani
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Jay M. Harris Read more  about Jon D. Levenson Read more  about Peter Machinist Read more  about D. Andrew Teeter Read more  about Shaye J.D. Cohen
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Giovanni Bazzana Read more  about Karen L. King Read more  about Laura S. Nasrallah Read more  about Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza Read more  about Charles M. Stang
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	James Engell is Gurney Professor of English and Professor of Comparative Literature, also a member of the Committee on Degrees in
	 Read more  about Francis Schüssler Fiorenza
	 Read more  about Amy Hollywood Read more  about David C. Lamberth Read more  about Parimal G. Patil
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Matthew L. Potts
	 Read more  about Francis Schüssler Fiorenza Read more  about Michael D. Jackson Read more  about Arthur Kleinman Read more  about Dan McKanan Read more  about Stephanie PaulsellMalika Zeghal is the Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Professor in Contemporary Islamic Thought and Life in the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Read more  about Jonathan L. Walton Read more  about Marla Frederick
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Leila Ahmed Read more  about Aisha M. Beliso-De Jesus Read more  about Ann D. Braude
	 Read more  about Amy Hollywood Read more  about Karen L. King Read more  about Ahmed Ragab Read more  about Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza Read more  about Janet Gyatso
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	James Engell is Gurney Professor of English and Professor of Comparative Literature, also a member of the Committee on Degrees in Read more  about Stephen Paul Shoemaker
	 Read more  about David F. Holland Read more  about Aisha M. Beliso-De Jesus Read more  about Ann D. Braude Read more  about Davíd Carrasco Read more  about David Hall Read more  about James Kloppenberg Read more  about Dan McKanan Read more  about Mayra Rivera Read more  about Jonathan L. Walton Read more  about David N. Hempton Read more  about Marla Frederick
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
     Read more  about Giovanni Bazzana Read more  about Karen L. King Read more  about Laura S. Nasrallah Read more  about Charles M. Stang Read more  about D. Andrew Teeter Read more  about Shaye J.D. Cohen
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    
	 Read more  about Diana Eck Read more  about Francis X. Clooney Read more  about Leonard W. J.  van der Kuijp Read more  about Anne E.  Monius Read more  about Charles Hallisey Read more  about Janet Gyatso Read more  about Parimal G. Patil
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Education: B.A., M.A. Cambridge 1980M. Phil. Oxford 1984Ph.D. Toronto 1987 Read more  about Matthew L. Potts Read more  about Francis X. Clooney
	 Read more  about Francis Schüssler Fiorenza
	 Read more  about Amy Hollywood Read more  about David C. Lamberth Read more  about Mayra Rivera Read more  about Charles M. Stang
	Harvard Public Directory

	Please refer to the public directory for the most up-to-date contact information.
Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu
    Harvard’s concentration in the Comparative Study of Religion is a vibrant community comprised of dynamic, devoted students and the nation’s most distinguished teaching faculty in the study of religion.  Students interact regularly with faculty and graduate students who share their interests. The program provides students with an understanding of the religious traditions of the world through study of sacred texts and rituals; philosophy, literature and theology; and the lived experiences and history of participants in the tradition.  Courses engage life’s biggest questions including the meaning of life and death, humanity and divinity, good and evil, sacrifice and community.  Course work exposes students to central concepts in the field such as god(s), ritual, gender, authority, orthodoxy, scripture and prophecy.  Anthropological, historical, philosophical, phenomenological, sociological and literary approaches open religion to closer analysis and deeper understanding.Students consistently rate our concentration and courses very highly.  Tutorials are small, tailored to student interests and designed to develop and refine students’ ability to analyze texts closely and to write coherently.  Close attention to excellent writing--through drafting, comments and revising--is a priority in our tutorial program. Concentrators pursue a wide range of careers after graduation, including business, law, medicine, politics, public service, scholarship, creative art and teaching.  Recent graduates are studying at Harvard Law School, teaching with Teach for America, pursuing graduate work at Cambridge University, practicing medicine and starring in television roles.  Our students consistently report back to us that the understanding of religion, the critical thinking skills, and the refined writing ability they gained in this concentration have been significantly important in making sense of current events and global politics, and in succeeding in their workplaces and local communities.  Most of our graduates have a strong interest in service to their communities and are committed to working in their chosen profession to make the world a better place. The Undergraduate section of this site reflects the information found in the Undergraduate Handbook, which is the standard reference work for requirements, rules, and advising procedures in the Study of Religion and it updated annually. Faculty advisers and tutorial leaders will assume students are familiar with it. Please read its contents carefully.Register your travel abroad for emergency support:www.globalsupport.harvard.edu/travel-tools*Students pursuing a Joint Concentration must also complete the college form "Joint Concentration Application".Director of Undergraduate Studies, Courtney LamberthAssistant Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kera StreetIt may be possible to substitute other traditions or themes depending on faculty and course offerings.Some of our students are religious and some are not. Those who are religious practice different faiths—Judaism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism and others. There is no presumption that students in religion will believe in God or practice a certain faith.Yes!Yes, this is possible. Make an appointment to see the Director of Undergraduate Studies, and be sure to bring with you syllabi from your other tutorials and a completed Plan of Study from the Study of Religion.Normally you will be allowed to complete your work in the Study of Religion under the guidelines that existed when you entered the program. See the Coursework section for historical handbooks.Committee on the Study of ReligionBarker Center, Cambridge, MA 02138Telephone: (617) 495-5781csrel@fas.harvard.edu