The Ph.D. program allows students to develop a flexible program reflecting special research interests, under the supervision of a faculty committee chosen by the student. Students are encouraged to plan for completion of all work for the Ph.D. in five years.» see Doctoral ProgramThe purpose of the Master of Arts degree program is to further develop knowledge and skills in Anthropology and to prepare students for a professional career or doctoral studies.Students may pursue two different tracks in the Anthropology Ph.D. degree program. The tracks are not declarable in AXESS; they do not appear on the transcript or the diploma. The two tracks are: 1) Culture and Society and 2) Archaeology.The Graduate Admissions season is open beginning in September each year for applications to be submitted by the published deadline in December.Doctoral and Masters Degree Program » Coterminal Masters Degree Program » Look up Anthropology courses.The Anthropology Graduate Student Organization advocates for graduate students within Stanford’s Anthropology department and the university as a whole.Download various graduate forms and reference documents.Anthropology graduate and undergraduate students have a number of opportunities to apply for grants and fellowships at a variety of stages during an academic career.Contact Student Services Officer Shelly Coughlan:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents meet for their course section outdoors on a nice day.Graduate training in Anthropology at Stanford is designed for students who seek the Doctoral of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree, and for students who seek the Masters of Arts (M.A.) degree, only.The purpose of the Master of Arts degree program is to further develop knowledge and skills in Anthropology and to prepare students for a professional career or doctoral studies. This is achieved through completion of courses in the primary field, as well as related areas, and through experience with independent work, area specialization and field research.The Ph.D. is conferred upon candidates who have demonstrated substantial scholarship and the ability to conduct independent research and analysis in Anthropology. Through completion of advanced course work and rigorous skills training, the Doctoral degree program prepares students to make original contributions to the knowledge of Anthropology and to interpret and present the results of such research.Download the Department of Anthropology Graduate Program Flyer and the Department of Anthropology Graduate Handbook for information concerning the Anthropology Graduate degree programs. These references can be found on the  Graduate Forms and References page.For more detailed description of the Anthropology Master of Arts Program, see Department of Anthropology About the Master of Arts Program and the Stanford University Bulletin Explore Degrees .For more detailed description of the Anthropology Doctor of Philosophy Program, see Department of Anthropology About the Doctor of Philosophy Program and the Stanford University Bulletin Explore Degrees.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints	Courses:	Funding:	Optional:	Milestones:	Requirements:	Units:	Forms:Central or Other:Department: [download department forms at Graduate Forms and References]Registrar: 	Courses:	Funding:	Milestones:	Requirements:	Units:Forms: none 	Courses:	Funding:	Milestones:	Requirements:	Units:Forms: none 	Courses: Funding:	Milestones: Requirements:	Units:	Forms:Central or Other:Department:Registrar:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsCourses:Funding:Optional:Milestones Requirements:Units:Forms:Central or Other:Department: [download department forms at Graduate Forms and References]Registrar: Courses:Funding:Milestones:		Requirements:Units: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms:Central or Other:Department:Registrar: Courses:Milestones:Requirements:Units: © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsCourses:Funding:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms:Central or Other:Department:Registrar:    © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsCourses:Funding:Optional:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Units:Forms: Courses:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsUniversity Registrar office of Graduate Admissions
E-mail: gradadmissions@stanford.eduDepartment of Anthropology
E-mail: anth_gradadmission@stanford.edu
Address: Department of Anthropology
450 Serra Mall, Main Quadrangle,
Building 50, Room 51G
Stanford, CA 94305-2034To apply to graduate degree programs in the Department of Anthropology, please go to the University Registrar, Graduate Admissions web page located at http://gradadmissions.stanford.edu/applying.For Additional Information about applying to Stanford University, go to:The graduate application submission deadline for the 2017-2018 academic year is Tuesday, December 5, 2017 at 9:00pm (PST). The application must be submitted and all required supporting documents, including official transcript(s), letters of recommendation, and ETS official GRE/TOFEL scores, must be received by the published deadline. Incomplete applications may not be considered.Although requesting department evaluation for MA if not accepted to PhD is an option provided in the University Graduate Application, the Department of Anthropology does not offer this option. Students should apply separately to either the PhD or the MA degree program in Anthropology. The department reserves the right to offer admission to an applicant for the MA or PhD regardless of the desired program stated in the Graduate Application.Check the status of an application (e.g. letters of recommendation received, official ETS test scores, etc.) by logging into the application account Activity Log. Each graduate admission season decision status information will be available by early March. The selection of Ph.D. students admitted to the Department of Anthropology is based on an individualized, holistic review of each application, including (but not limited to) the applicant's academic record, the letters of recommendation, the scores on both the General GRE (Graduate Record Examination) and the GRE Subject test, the statement of purpose, personal qualities and characteristics, and past accomplishments.The selection of PhD students admitted to the Department of Anthropology is based on an individualized, holistic review of each application, including (but, not limited to) the applicant's academic record, the letters of recommendation, the scores on the General GRE (Graduate Record Examination), the statement of purpose, personal qualities and characteristics, and past accomplishments.The Knight-Hennessy Scholars program is designed to build a multidisciplinary community of Stanford graduate students dedicated to finding creative solutions to the world's greatest challenges. Each year, this University-endowed Scholars Program awards up to 100 high-achieving Graduate students with  funding to pursue a Graduate education at Stanford. To be considered for admission to the Department of Anthropology MA or PhD degree program as a Knight-Hennessy Scholar, one must apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars via https://knight-hennessy.stanford.edu/admission/apply-now by September 27, 2017; and, apply to Stanford University, Department of Anthropology, Graduate degree program via https://gradadmissions.stanford.edu/applying.  Although, the Department of Anthropology published deadline for submission of the Graduate application is December 5, 2017, only those applicants who have submitted a Knight-Hennessy Scholar application by September 27, 2017; and, who have also submitted a Graduate application to the Department of Anthropology on or by November 15, 2017 are eligible for consideration of graduate admission status to the MA or PhD in Anthropology as a Knight Hennessy Scholar.MSTP application in conjunction with social science PhD programs is only permitted for current Stanford MD students previously admitted to a social science PhD program, through their PhD application process.Stanford MD students admitted to a Social Science PhD Program may apply for MSTP funding through the MSTP internal admissions process. For more information, please go to http://med.stanford.edu/mstp/admissions.htmlUniversity Registrar Office of Graduate Admissions Contact Information:
	Web page: https://gradadmissions.stanford.edu
	E-mail: gradadmissions@stanford.eduDepartment of Anthropology Contact Information:
	Web page: https://anthropology.stanford.edu
	E-mail: anth_gradadmission@stanford.eduMailing Address:
	Department of Anthropology
	450 Serra Mall, Main Quadrangle, Building 50, Room 51G
	Stanford, CA 94305-2034© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Ph.D. program allows the student to develop a flexible program reflecting special research interests, under the supervision of a faculty committee chosen by the student. Students are encouraged to plan for completion of all work for the Ph.D. in five years.Ph.D. students in Anthropology must complete a minimum of 135 quarter units with a minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 (B). The maximum allowable number of transfer units is 45.
		The typical time to degree is approximately 6 years, although it is quite possible to complete all the requirements in 5 years. A typical schedule is as follows:For additional information please see the Stanford University Bulletin, the Anthropology Graduate Program Flyer, and the department graduate program webpage.Culture and Society and Archaeology are the two tracks of specialization in the doctoral program. Within these tracks, students may explore a range of fields of study including medical anthropology and ecological and environmental anthropology. Examples of the varying faculty and student areas of study can be found in their respective profiles online. Although, the tracks are informal and at the department-level, only, they are an important way for the department to identify the student’s developing research.The department faculty and their research interests are listed online at Anthropology Faculty. Current PhD students in the Department of Anthropology may be contacted by visiting Anthropology Graduate Students.Current PhD students in the Department of Anthropology may be contacted by visiting Anthropology Graduate Students.PhD candidates must prove competence in a foreign language by the end of spring quarter of their Second Year. The chosen language may be related to field research or scholarly work.The Department requires one quarter of Teaching Assistantship in the Second Year and at least one quarter of Teaching Assistantship in the Fifth Year. The Department requires students in the Second Year cohort to attend a Teaching Assistantship Training workshop at the beginning of the academic year.After at least one quarter of enrollment in the first year, students pursuing a PhD may apply for transfer credit for up to 45 units of graduate work done at another institution.No, prior graduate work may not be transferred or credited toward the MA degree program.No, transferring from the MA degree program to the PhD degree program is not usually permitted. Anthropology MA applicants whose ultimate goal is the Anthropology PhD program should apply directly to the PhD degree program.No, applicants to the PhD program are not required to have an MA before applying to the PhD program. Less than one third of an entering PhD cohort will have obtained a masters degree.No, applicants are not required to have an Anthropology background. However, a background in the behavioral/ and or social sciences would be expected. In addition, the applicant would be expected to have a foundation in social science theory and the ability to do analysis in the social sciences.Please refer to the University Bulletin, Department Admissions website, and Registrars Office of Graduate Admissions website for more information. Contact information for graduate students including a description of their topic and area(s) of interest is also available at the Department website under Graduate Students.The Department of Anthropology offers five years of graduate funding (based on the availability of funds) for the PhD program, through a combination of fellowships and assistantships, covering full tuition and a living stipend. The fellowships are usually given for five consecutive years of graduate study. In addition to the graduate funding offer, the PhD student is also offered funding for two summers of pre-field summer research; and health insurance coverage during the academic year (autumn, winter and spring quarters).There is no financial support available through the Department of Anthropology to support students in the graduate Masters program. For more information about other funding opportunities, please contact the Student Services Officer directly via email or telephone at selleck@stanford.edu or 650-723-4641.Although, departmental funding support is sometimes referred to as ‘Financial Aid’ this funding is distinct from federal or other funding that an individual student may apply for through the Financial Aid office of Stanford University. Department funding support for PhD students is funding provided from the School of Humanities and Sciences by way of the Department for the purpose of supporting the PhD student’s living expenses as well academic and research expenses throughout the PhD degree program.Stanford is on the Quarter System. For more information about Stanford’s schedule, please go to the Stanford Academic Calendar published by the Office of the Registrar.Information about current Anthropology course offerings can be found on our Department website under Courses. Course listings beyond the current quarter can be viewed in Stanford Bulletin Explore Courses.Information about the department’s Doctoral and Masters degree programs, please review the information located on the Department web pages.Information about campus housing for graduate students can be found on Stanford’s Student Housing website under Prospective Students.Information about the estimated cost of living at Stanford as a graduate student can be found on The Student Budget website. Remember that this is only an estimate, your actual expenses may be different.Information about sources of Graduate student funding can be found at http://vpge.stanford.edu/funding/sources.html.Admission to the Master's degree program does not increase the probability of admission to the doctoral degree program. If a current Stanford University MA student applies to the PhD degree program, the applicant will be considered equally with all other graduate applicants.The tuition for the 2015-2016 academic year can be located at http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/registrar/students/tuition-fees_15-16The Department of Anthropology usually offers identical five-year funding packages to all admitted PhD students, with two additional summer quarters of funding. Funding is intended to cover the applicable tuition costs, Stanford Cardinal Care health insurance expenses, and various living expenses in the form of direct stipend, teaching assistantships or pre-doctoral research assistantships. The department, with the School of Humanities and Sciences, is also committed to sponsoring students' involvement in professional activities and may reimburse many of the expenses for research travel, summer language study, and participation in academic conferences. Applicants to the graduate PhD degree program in Anthropology do not need to submit an additional application for funding at the time when the graduate application is submitted. The department encourages students in all stages of the PhD degree program to apply for funding from intra and extramural funding sources.Listed below, are just a few of the agencies providing graduate fellowships. Applicants are urged to consult funding references for additional sources of support.NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program http://www.nsfgrfp.org/Ford Minority Predoctoral Fellowship Program http://sites.nationalacademies.org/PGA/FordFellowships/PGA_047958Mellon Mays Predoctoral Research Grants http://www.ssrc.org/fellowships/mellon-mays-predoctoral-research-grants/Various Foreign Language and Area Studies grants © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsYou are eligible for admission to graduate programs at Stanford as long as you have either completed a bachelor’s degree from a U.S. college or university accredited by a regional accrediting association; or completed an international degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a college or university of recognized standing.No, applications will be submitted during autumn quarter for matriculation in the following autumn quarter/in the following academic year (e.g. apply in autumn 2014 for matriculation in autumn of 2015).You may apply to only one degree program per academic year; however, you may only apply concurrently to one departmental program and to a professional school program (law, medicine or business). Please refer to https://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/faq-applying.Although requesting department evaluation for MA if not accepted to PhD is an option provided in the University Graduate Application, the Department of Anthropology does not offer this option. Students should apply separately to either the PhD or the MA degree program in Anthropology. The department reserves the right to offer admission to an applicant for the MA or PhD regardless of the desired program stated in the Graduate Application.Stanford uses an on‐line application. Information regarding the application fee can be found at https://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/applying/fee. This allows applicants to save data and work on their application from any computer on multiple occasions. The University Registrar’s Office of Graduate Admissions will consider a paper application only if the prospective applicant can show extenuating circumstances that prevent internet access. There is an additional cost for the paper application packet.Stanford University offers several fee reduction programs. For additional information on this University policy, please see http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/applying/fee-waiver and https://sites.stanford.edu/grad-diversity-council/fee-waiver.Electronic submission of the graduate application is due via the web-based application by 9 P.M. PST on Tuesday, December 13, 2016.Applicants are welcome to tour the department and to make an appointment to meet with the Student Services Officer.Those applicants who wish to tour the campus to learn more about the University should contact the Visitor’s Center http://www.stanford.edu/dept/visitorinfo/tours/.Yes, please upload all application articles directly to the online application.Please upload all application articles directly to the online application. If you need to send supplemental materials before the application is available, please contact the Student Services Officer directly via email or telephone at selleck@stanford.edu or 650-723-4641.For information about extramural funding opportunities, go to the Department of Anthropology’s web page for Funding Opportunities for Graduate Training. Beyond that you may contact the Student Services Officer directly via email or telephone at selleck@stanford.edu or 650-723-4641.The department’s offer of admission is based on the student’s representation of accurate information in the graduate application. A degree program listed in process and pending completion must be completed as listed in the graduate application. The Registrar office of Graduate Admission policy on representation and authenticity is listed at the Stanford Right of Verification policy located at http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/applying/verification.The graduate application Checklist is updated by the Department staff from mid-December through mid-January. Keeping in mind that the University is structured on the Quarter system and that there is a University Winter Closure from the third week of December through the first day of classes in January, the checklists may not be completed by staff until mid-January. If the checklist status is ‘incomplete’, it may be that the applicant materials have been received, or not, and the staff have not yet had the opportunity to enter the updated information. Alternately, if certain application materials have not yet been received (i.e. official transcripts, letters of recommendation, and test scores), there should be sufficient time for the applicant to provide these materials during the first part of January.Applications are reviewed holistically to assess their promise for teaching and research careers. Greater emphasis may be placed on the statement of purpose and letters of recommendation. Faculty from the Department of Anthropology represent the department’s Graduate Admissions Committee each year – usually about six faculty, with two faculty from each of the department tracks.Decisions and notifications are usually made by mid-March and sent electronically via email. Please do not call the Department of Anthropology to inquire about the status of your application. The application status for materials received can be checked via the applicant’s web-based account.Each year, the Department of Anthropology receives many competitive applications to the PhD program for very few funded openings. As with the PhD program, the Department also receives many competitive applications to the MA program for very few non-funded openings.You may (re)apply to a particular degree program in a subsequent application season. Regardless of a first-time application or a (re) application, the prospective applicant is required to submit an on-line application by the published deadline and pay the application fee for each application submitted.The Department is not able to provide specific information related to individual applications. The admissions decisions have been based on an assessment of the qualifications of the applicant relative to the unique applicant pool in a given admissions season.No, the Department does not allow deferral of admission.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsYes, the GRE is required by Stanford University and it is a University-wide requirement for admission. If you would like any further information on GRE scores and Graduate Admissions at Stanford, please go to the University Registrar’s Office of Graduate Admissions web pages located at http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/faq-gre-toefl.The Department’s requirement for the GRE test score is for the General Test, only. Verbal, quantitative and analytical writing scores are required of all graduate applicants. No additional subject tests are required.
	Beginning August 1, 2011 ETS launched the revised general test. As ETS states, if you take the GRE Revised General Test in August through September then Stanford will receive the scores by mid-November. We strongly advise you to take the GRE no later than September, so that your scores will be received by the application deadline. Scores must be from an examination taken within the last five years.The Department of Anthropology does not state a minimum score, average or range, for the GRE test. There are no statistical averages kept either by the Department or by the University. The GRE test and the significance of the scores are considered by the faculty members who make up the Graduate Admissions Committee on a case by case basis. There is no set standard for evaluation of these scores by the committee. Scores are reviewed holistically, in the context of the applicant's entire file.No, the graduate application for admission to the PhD degree program includes the request for Department funding if accepted to the degree program. There is no funding available to terminal MA students.GRE score availability depends on when the exam was taken. Please see the GRE Test Score Schedule to find out when the scores will be available. If scores are received after submission of the application, please email the self-reported scores to anth_gradadmission@stanford.edu. Although the Department of Anthropology cannot make a guarantee, an effort will be made by the Department to add the self-reported scores to the application.
	Both the GRE and TOEFL (if required) test scores must be received by the Department of Anthropology’s annual graduate admissions deadline in consideration for graduate admission to the MA or PhD degree programs. In order to ensure timely receipt of the test scores, applicants are encouraged to take the required examination(s) by the end of September prior to the published graduate admissions deadline. The GRE test scores must be provided by way of an examination taken within the past five years from the date of the published graduate admissions deadline. TOEFL test scores must be provided by way of an examination taken within the past eighteen months from the date of the published graduate admissions deadline.The TOEFL test score(s), either computer based or paper-based, are required for all applicants to the Terminal MA and PhD degree programs whose first language is not English. Exceptions are granted for applicants who have earned a U.S. bachelor’s or master’s degree from a college or university accredited by a regional accrediting association in the United States, or the equivalent degree from a non-U.S. college or university of recognized standing where all instruction is provided in English. This exception does not apply if the courses were completed in a country where English is spoken but not all courses were provided in English. Holding U.S. citizenship does not automatically exempt an applicant from the requirement for the TOEFL; if the applicant’s first language is not English, the applicant must meet the exception above or submit TOEFL scores. TOEFL test scores must be submitted from a test taken within the last eighteen months. Applicants may request confirmation of an exemption by sending an email message to Graduate Admissions at the Stanford University, Registrar at gradadmissions@standford.edu.The ETS code for Stanford University is 4704. There is no additional or other Department code. Test scores are sent directly to the Stanford University Office of the Registrar via electronic format. ETS transfers these scores at some time between 1 June and the published graduate admissions deadline of a given graduate admissions year. Please go to http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/applying/exams for additional information regarding test scores and ETS.The electronic application requires both scanned (.pdf) uploaded copies and original paper (hard) copies of the transcripts from each postsecondary institution attended for one or more years as a full-time student (Summer transcripts are not required). Please go to http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/applying/transcripts for additional information regarding transcripts. The .pdf copy is uploaded directly to the electronic application. The copies of the transcript should be official. The official paper copy should be sent directly to the Department of Anthropology. Any other supplemental articles should be uploaded directly to the electronic application. The mailing address for the paper copy transcripts is as follows:Department of Anthropology
	Graduate Admissions
	Building 50, Main Quad, Room 51G
	450 Serra Mall
	Stanford University
	Stanford, CA 94305-2034.The Statement of Purpose is an important part of application. The graduate admissions committee is primarily concerned with information regarding the applicant’s stated research interests. Applicants should describe in the statement of purpose the following information:
	- reason for applying to the proposed graduate program at Stanford University
	- preparation for the field of study, research and study interests
	- future career plans and other aspects including background and interests which may aid the graduate admission committee in evaluating applicant aptitude and motivation for graduate study
	Generally, a shorter Statement of Purpose, clearly written, is better than a longer statement. Applicants should upload one file that does not exceed 5MB. The Statement of Purpose should be a 900-1,350 word paper. Applicant computers should be set to Western European or other English-language setting.
	Please include the following statement with the statement of purpose upload: ‘In keeping with the spirit of Stanford University's student honor code, I certify that the uploaded Statement of Purpose represents my own work, excepting normal input from advisors and named co authors or sources’.
	Do not send the statement of purpose or other materials via mail or courier to the Department of Anthropology. Applicants who encounter difficulty with uploading the writing sample may send it via pdf email file attachment to the Department of Anthropology at anth_gradadmission@stanford.edu.An appropriate writing sample is comparable to an applicant’s Senior Paper, Honors or Master's Thesis, a published paper, or a comparable written work giving evidence of both writing ability and the capacity for research, analysis, and original thought at the graduate level, demonstrating the ability to use theory in relation to evidence. A short, effectively written sample is preferable to a longer sample. Papers originally written in a language other than English must be submitted in English translation.
	Applicants should upload one file not exceeding 5MB. The writing sample should be a 4,500-5,400 word paper. Applicant computers should be set to Western European or other English-language setting.
	Please include the following statement with the writing sample upload: ‘In keeping with the spirit of Stanford University's student honor code, I certify that the uploaded Writing Sample represents my own work, excepting normal input from advisors and named co authors or sources’. Do not send the writing sample via mail or courier to the Department of Anthropology. Applicants who encounter difficulty with uploading the writing sample may send it via pdf email file attachment to the Department of Anthropology at anth_gradadmission@stanford.edu.Given the number of graduate applications each year, the department is not able to confirm receipt of application articles (inclusive of the paper copy official transcripts) to each graduate applicant. However, the department utilizes the graduate applicant checklist to communicate the completion status of this requirement.
	Regarding the GRE test scores, these scores are received as electronic feed by the University registrar. Once the feed is received, the registrar associates each score with the graduate applicant file, incrementally, from the time of submission of the application.
	Please use the graduate application checklist associated with your CollegeNet registration. Your application status will be updated by the department after the published application deadline and through the end of January (as application articles are received).Three letters of recommendation are required, only. It is not the quantity of letters, rather it is the quality of the letters that supports the graduate application. Although, the electronic application will allow an applicant to submit more than three recommenders, please submit three recommenders, only. At least one recommender should be a faculty member at the last school you attended as a full-time student (unless you have been out of school for more than five years). Substitutions for faculty recommenders may include work associates or others who can comment on the applicant’s academic potential for graduate work. By special permission, a substitute or fourth recommender may be added by the applicant, please contact the Student Services Officer directly via email or telephone at selleck@stanford.edu or 650-723-4641 in order to make arrangements for a substitute or fourth referee.Letters must be submitted using the electronic application. As part of the online application, the applicant will be required to register the names and contact information, including e-mail addresses, of each recommender. Recommenders will then receive an e-mail with directions on how to proceed. For additional information, please go to http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/gradadmissions/applying/recommendations.  Letters must be received by the published deadline. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that letters are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline.The electronic application and web-based recommendation submission process does not accommodate applicant recommendation via a letter service (i.e. Interfolio or other service). Letters of recommendation are submitted online, by the recommender. The recommender’s email address is used as the contact. Once the recommender’s email address has been provided in the electronic application, an email message is sent to the recommender with instructions on setting up the recommender account and submitting the recommendation, electronically.
	The process of making a recommendation includes submissions of an electronic form in which the recommender answers questions about the qualifications of the application (i.e. how long the recommender has been teaching and the approximate number of students the recommender has taught), and ranking the recommender gives to the applicant compared to all others taught at that level. Due to the electronic application recommendation process, a letter service is not applicable and would not function. Applicants should contact their recommenders notifying them in advance that they will be receiving an email message asking them to submit a letter of recommendation.Letters cannot be emailed or faxed; they will be rejected. If the recommender has difficulty with the electronic application and the requirements for submission of the letter(s) of recommendation, please contact the Student Services Officer directly via email or telephone at selleck@stanford.edu or 650-723-4641 in order to make other arrangements to submit the letter.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsUniversity Registrar office of Graduate Admissions
E-mail: gradadmissions@stanford.eduDepartment of Anthropology
E-mail: anth_gradadmission@stanford.edu
Address: Department of Anthropology
450 Serra Mall, Main Quadrangle,
Building 50, Room 51G
Stanford, CA 94305-2034To apply to graduate degree programs in the Department of Anthropology, please go to the University Registrar, Graduate Admissions web page located at http://gradadmissions.stanford.edu/applying.For Additional Information about applying to Stanford University, go to:The graduate application submission deadline for the 2017-2018 academic year is Tuesday, December 5, 2017 at 9:00pm (PST). The application must be submitted and all required supporting documents, including official transcript(s), letters of recommendation, and ETS official GRE/TOFEL scores, must be received by the published deadline. Incomplete applications may not be considered.Although requesting department evaluation for MA if not accepted to PhD is an option provided in the University Graduate Application, the Department of Anthropology does not offer this option. Students should apply separately to either the PhD or the MA degree program in Anthropology. The department reserves the right to offer admission to an applicant for the MA or PhD regardless of the desired program stated in the Graduate Application.Check the status of an application (e.g. letters of recommendation received, official ETS test scores, etc.) by logging into the application account Activity Log. Each graduate admission season decision status information will be available by early March. The selection of Ph.D. students admitted to the Department of Anthropology is based on an individualized, holistic review of each application, including (but not limited to) the applicant's academic record, the letters of recommendation, the scores on both the General GRE (Graduate Record Examination) and the GRE Subject test, the statement of purpose, personal qualities and characteristics, and past accomplishments.The selection of PhD students admitted to the Department of Anthropology is based on an individualized, holistic review of each application, including (but, not limited to) the applicant's academic record, the letters of recommendation, the scores on the General GRE (Graduate Record Examination), the statement of purpose, personal qualities and characteristics, and past accomplishments.The Knight-Hennessy Scholars program is designed to build a multidisciplinary community of Stanford graduate students dedicated to finding creative solutions to the world's greatest challenges. Each year, this University-endowed Scholars Program awards up to 100 high-achieving Graduate students with  funding to pursue a Graduate education at Stanford. To be considered for admission to the Department of Anthropology MA or PhD degree program as a Knight-Hennessy Scholar, one must apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars via https://knight-hennessy.stanford.edu/admission/apply-now by September 27, 2017; and, apply to Stanford University, Department of Anthropology, Graduate degree program via https://gradadmissions.stanford.edu/applying.  Although, the Department of Anthropology published deadline for submission of the Graduate application is December 5, 2017, only those applicants who have submitted a Knight-Hennessy Scholar application by September 27, 2017; and, who have also submitted a Graduate application to the Department of Anthropology on or by November 15, 2017 are eligible for consideration of graduate admission status to the MA or PhD in Anthropology as a Knight Hennessy Scholar.MSTP application in conjunction with social science PhD programs is only permitted for current Stanford MD students previously admitted to a social science PhD program, through their PhD application process.Stanford MD students admitted to a Social Science PhD Program may apply for MSTP funding through the MSTP internal admissions process. For more information, please go to http://med.stanford.edu/mstp/admissions.htmlUniversity Registrar Office of Graduate Admissions Contact Information:
	Web page: https://gradadmissions.stanford.edu
	E-mail: gradadmissions@stanford.eduDepartment of Anthropology Contact Information:
	Web page: https://anthropology.stanford.edu
	E-mail: anth_gradadmission@stanford.eduMailing Address:
	Department of Anthropology
	450 Serra Mall, Main Quadrangle, Building 50, Room 51G
	Stanford, CA 94305-2034© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsDepartment of Anthropology
	450 Serra Mall, Main Quadrangle, 
        Building 50, Room 51G
	Stanford, CA 94305-2034University Registrar office of Graduate Admissions Contact Information
Web page: https://gradadmissions.stanford.edu
E-mail: gradadmissions@stanford.eduDepartment of Anthropology Contact Information
Undergraduate Student Services Officer
Anahid Sarkissian
E-mail: anahids@stanford.eduThe Coterminal M.A. degree program allows Stanford undergraduates to study for a master’s degree while completing their bachelor’s degree(s) in the same or a different department. Undergraduates with strong academic records may apply for admission to a coterminal master’s program upon completion of 120 units, but no later than the quarter prior to the expected completion of the undergraduate degree. Full-time enrollment during Summer Quarters, as well as allowable undergraduate transfer credit, are also counted towards quarters of undergraduate study. Students who wish to apply for a master’s program after these deadlines must apply through the regular graduate admissions process. For the terminal M.A. degree program please see Admissions - Doctor of Philosophy and Terminal Master of Arts.The deadline for graduate applications to the Coterminal M.A. degree program is December 13, 2016. Stanford University undergraduate majors are eligible to apply for the coterminal master’s degree program with a 3.5 GPA in their department major, a 3.0 GPA in overall course work, and with no more than one incomplete listed on the transcript at the time of application. Please note that Coterminal master's degree applicants are not required to submit their Graduate Record Examination scores.Prospective applicants should see http://exploredegrees.stanford.edu/cotermdegrees/#text for the application forms and further information about the application process.Applicants must submit the following:Application must be submitted with all required supporting documents by the published deadline. Incomplete applications may not be considered.M.A. Application Deadline: Tuesday, December 13, 2016It is highly suggested by this department that a student, who accepts an offer of admission to the ANTHRO Coterminal Master's program, defers their Undergraduate B.A. conferral until the Graduate M.A degree requirements have been completed. The student can then request to graduate in both the B.A. and M.A. simultaneously. Please see the Student Services Officer for details.Please contact the Undergraduate Student Services Officer if you have any questions regarding the status of your application to the Coterminal M.A. degree program in the Department of Anthropology.Applicants will be notified of their admissions decision prior to Spring quarter of their senior year.For Department policy pertaining to Coterm Course Transfer and Registrar Coterm web page, see https://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/registrar/students/coterm.University Registrar office of Graduate Admissions Contact Information:
	Web page: http://gradadmissions.stanford.edu
	Email: gradadmissions@stanford.eduDepartment of Anthropology Contact Information:
	Undergraduate Student Services Officer
	Anahid Sarkissian
	E-mail: anahids@stanford.eduDepartment of Anthropology
        Graduate Admissions Committee
        450 Serra Mall, Main Quadrangle
        Building 50, Room 51N
        Stanford, CA 94305-2034© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Anthropology Graduate Student Organization advocates for graduate students within Stanford’s Anthropology department and the university as a whole. It serves as a liaison between the department’s students, faculty, and staff; forms a sounding board for issues of collective concern; connects students with appropriate university resources; and coordinates other student-driven actions.The GSO’s responsibilities include:All anthropology graduate students are automatically members of the GSO, which is the primary means by which students keep themselves informed of, and participate in, department decision making and activities.  Students are expected to participate regularly in the GSO’s quarterly meetings, annual town hall, and other events. Have an idea, problem, or question? Get in touch with the representatives by sending an email to anthrogso@gmail.com.	Sensitive or individual concerns can also be raised directly with a representative from the appropriate track.For more details about the GSO’s responsibilities and structure, download the current GSO Handbook.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents meet for their course section outdoors on a nice day.The Ph.D. is conferred upon candidates who have demonstrated substantial scholarship and the ability to conduct independent research and analysis in Anthropology. Through completion of advanced course work and rigorous skills training, the Doctoral degree program prepares students to make original contributions to the knowledge of Anthropology and to interpret and present the results of such research.Students may pursue two different tracks in the Anthropology Ph.D. degree program:The Ph.D. program allows the student to develop a flexible program reflecting special research interests, under the supervision of a faculty committee chosen by the student. Students are encouraged to plan for completion of all work for the Ph.D. in five years.Ph.D. students in Anthropology must complete a minimum of 135 quarter units with a minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 (B). The maximum allowable number of transfer units is 45.Download the Department of Anthropology Graduate Program Flyer and the Department of Anthropology Graduate Handbook for information concerning the Anthropology Graduate degree programs. These references can be found on the  Graduate Forms and References page.For more detailed description of the Anthropology Master of Arts Program, see Department of Anthropology About the Master of Arts Program and the Stanford University Bulletin Explore Degrees .For more detailed description of the Anthropology Doctor of Philosophy Program, see Department of Anthropology About the Doctor of Philosophy Program and the Stanford University Bulletin Explore Degrees.  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Ph.D. program allows the student to develop a flexible program reflecting special research interests, under the supervision of a faculty committee chosen by the student. Students are encouraged to plan for completion of all work for the Ph.D. in five years.Ph.D. students in Anthropology must complete a minimum of 135 quarter units with a minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 (B). The maximum allowable number of transfer units is 45.
		The typical time to degree is approximately 6 years, although it is quite possible to complete all the requirements in 5 years. A typical schedule is as follows:For additional information please see the Stanford University Bulletin, the Anthropology Graduate Program Flyer, and the department graduate program webpage.Culture and Society and Archaeology are the two tracks of specialization in the doctoral program. Within these tracks, students may explore a range of fields of study including medical anthropology and ecological and environmental anthropology. Examples of the varying faculty and student areas of study can be found in their respective profiles online. Although, the tracks are informal and at the department-level, only, they are an important way for the department to identify the student’s developing research.The department faculty and their research interests are listed online at Anthropology Faculty. Current PhD students in the Department of Anthropology may be contacted by visiting Anthropology Graduate Students.Current PhD students in the Department of Anthropology may be contacted by visiting Anthropology Graduate Students.PhD candidates must prove competence in a foreign language by the end of spring quarter of their Second Year. The chosen language may be related to field research or scholarly work.The Department requires one quarter of Teaching Assistantship in the Second Year and at least one quarter of Teaching Assistantship in the Fifth Year. The Department requires students in the Second Year cohort to attend a Teaching Assistantship Training workshop at the beginning of the academic year.After at least one quarter of enrollment in the first year, students pursuing a PhD may apply for transfer credit for up to 45 units of graduate work done at another institution.No, prior graduate work may not be transferred or credited toward the MA degree program.No, transferring from the MA degree program to the PhD degree program is not usually permitted. Anthropology MA applicants whose ultimate goal is the Anthropology PhD program should apply directly to the PhD degree program.No, applicants to the PhD program are not required to have an MA before applying to the PhD program. Less than one third of an entering PhD cohort will have obtained a masters degree.No, applicants are not required to have an Anthropology background. However, a background in the behavioral/ and or social sciences would be expected. In addition, the applicant would be expected to have a foundation in social science theory and the ability to do analysis in the social sciences.Please refer to the University Bulletin, Department Admissions website, and Registrars Office of Graduate Admissions website for more information. Contact information for graduate students including a description of their topic and area(s) of interest is also available at the Department website under Graduate Students.The Department of Anthropology offers five years of graduate funding (based on the availability of funds) for the PhD program, through a combination of fellowships and assistantships, covering full tuition and a living stipend. The fellowships are usually given for five consecutive years of graduate study. In addition to the graduate funding offer, the PhD student is also offered funding for two summers of pre-field summer research; and health insurance coverage during the academic year (autumn, winter and spring quarters).There is no financial support available through the Department of Anthropology to support students in the graduate Masters program. For more information about other funding opportunities, please contact the Student Services Officer directly via email or telephone at selleck@stanford.edu or 650-723-4641.Although, departmental funding support is sometimes referred to as ‘Financial Aid’ this funding is distinct from federal or other funding that an individual student may apply for through the Financial Aid office of Stanford University. Department funding support for PhD students is funding provided from the School of Humanities and Sciences by way of the Department for the purpose of supporting the PhD student’s living expenses as well academic and research expenses throughout the PhD degree program.Stanford is on the Quarter System. For more information about Stanford’s schedule, please go to the Stanford Academic Calendar published by the Office of the Registrar.Information about current Anthropology course offerings can be found on our Department website under Courses. Course listings beyond the current quarter can be viewed in Stanford Bulletin Explore Courses.Information about the department’s Doctoral and Masters degree programs, please review the information located on the Department web pages.Information about campus housing for graduate students can be found on Stanford’s Student Housing website under Prospective Students.Information about the estimated cost of living at Stanford as a graduate student can be found on The Student Budget website. Remember that this is only an estimate, your actual expenses may be different.Information about sources of Graduate student funding can be found at http://vpge.stanford.edu/funding/sources.html.Admission to the Master's degree program does not increase the probability of admission to the doctoral degree program. If a current Stanford University MA student applies to the PhD degree program, the applicant will be considered equally with all other graduate applicants.The tuition for the 2015-2016 academic year can be located at http://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/registrar/students/tuition-fees_15-16The Department of Anthropology usually offers identical five-year funding packages to all admitted PhD students, with two additional summer quarters of funding. Funding is intended to cover the applicable tuition costs, Stanford Cardinal Care health insurance expenses, and various living expenses in the form of direct stipend, teaching assistantships or pre-doctoral research assistantships. The department, with the School of Humanities and Sciences, is also committed to sponsoring students' involvement in professional activities and may reimburse many of the expenses for research travel, summer language study, and participation in academic conferences. Applicants to the graduate PhD degree program in Anthropology do not need to submit an additional application for funding at the time when the graduate application is submitted. The department encourages students in all stages of the PhD degree program to apply for funding from intra and extramural funding sources.Listed below, are just a few of the agencies providing graduate fellowships. Applicants are urged to consult funding references for additional sources of support.NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program http://www.nsfgrfp.org/Ford Minority Predoctoral Fellowship Program http://sites.nationalacademies.org/PGA/FordFellowships/PGA_047958Mellon Mays Predoctoral Research Grants http://www.ssrc.org/fellowships/mellon-mays-predoctoral-research-grants/Various Foreign Language and Area Studies grants © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThis section provides anthropology graduate (and, in some cases undergraduate students) with information to identify and apply for grants and fellowships at a variety of stages during a  graduate academic career. The resources provided below direct students to common grant and fellowship sponsoring organizations at Stanford University (intramural) and at organizations external to Stanford University (extramural)The Department of Anthropology is not responsible for the content or information provided below.http://med.stanford.edu/rmg/funding/funding_database.htmlhttp://highwire.stanford.edu/lists/portals.dtlhttp://www-sul.stanford.edu/guides/funding.htmlRecommended webpage references for proposal and thesis writing (formatting and style) information include the following:http://www-tcad.stanford.edu/~goojs/RESEARCH/thesis.htmlhttp://help-csli.stanford.edu/tex/suthesishttp://www.aaanet.org/publications/guidelines.cfmhttp://esapubs.org/esapubs/preparation.htmhttp://www.saa.org/AbouttheSociety/Publications/StyleGuide/tabid/984/Def...http://www.press.uchicago.edu/journals/ca/style.html?journal=cahttp://www.sha.org/publications/for_authors.cfmhttp://www.stanford.edu/~jhj1/grant-advice.html© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAvailable to post-field research graduate students these programs are typically aimed at providing dissertation writers with financial support for one year in order to facilitate the completion of their dissertations. Specific prerequisites vary, but applicants are generally expected to have met all their graduate program requirements, except for submission of their dissertation("All But Dissertation - ABD"), in order to be eligible for funding.Website: https://www.acls.org/programs/dcf/
	Deadline: mid to late October
	Requirements:Website: http://woodrow.org/fellowships/newcombe/#about
	Deadline: mid November
	Requirements:Website: http://www.hfg.org/df/print.htm
	Deadline: early February
	Requirements:Website: http://www.usip.org/grants-fellowships/fellowship-opportunities/jennings...
	Deadline: mid December
	Requirements:Website: http://www.turkishstudies.org/grants/grants_competition.shtml
	Deadline: early March
	Requirements:Website: https://seed.stanford.edu/research/request-proposals
	Deadline: October to DecemberDeadline: early to mid January
	a. Geballe Dissertation Prize
	b. Mellon Foundation Dissertation Fellowship
	c. G.J. Lieberman Fellowship, requires a distinguished record of university teachinga. Graduate Dissertation Fellowship:b. Graduate Teaching Fellowship:
	Fellow duties:Required documents:Application Info:Approximate deadline: mid-January.
	Application Info:a. Social Sciences or Humanities International Security Fellowship (a variety of security topics, including: nuclear weapons policy and nonproliferation; nuclear energy; cybersecurity, cyberwarfare, and the future of the Internet; biosecurity and global health; implications of geostrategic shifts; insurgency, terrorism, and homeland security; war and civil conflict; consolidating peace after conflict; as well as global governance, migration, and transnational flows, from norms to criminal trafficking) and
	b. Law and International Security Fellowship in partnership with Stanford Law School (open to lawyers, law students, and social scientists who wish to conduct research projects at the intersection of law and international security). The fellowship is currently closed but the deadline for last year was mid January.
	Application Info:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsCritical Language Scholarship Program
	Website: http://clscholarship.org/qv_applicant.php
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalAmerica Indian Institute of Indian Studies
	Website: http://www.indiastudies.org/language-programs/
	Deadline: January
	Source: ExternalForeign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) [Department of Education]
	Website: http://www2.ed.gov/programs/iegpsflasf/index.htmlhttp://ceas.stanford.edu/docs/fellowship/Graduate%20AY%20FLAS%20Guidelin...http://africanstudies.stanford.edu/fellowships/flas_fellowshipshttp://creees.stanford.edu/node/285http://las.stanford.edu/grants-and-fellowships/for-graduate-students/fla...
	Deadline: (see sponsoring academic institution specific information)
	Source: External/InternalICA Division of International Comparative & Area Studies (Funding Support for Students)
	Website: http://ica.stanford.edu/funding
	Deadline: Various
	Source: Internal© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThese research grants and fellowships are designed to assist students performing dissertation research. They vary widely in eligibility conditions, application requirements and types of research sponsored. Applicants are strongly encouraged to carefully read program details and to work closely with their advisors throughout the proposal writing phase of their application.Fulbright Scholarships
	website: http://icenter.stanford.edu/orc/fulbright.html
	Deadline: September
	Source: ExternalFord Foundation
	website: http://sites.nationalacademies.org/PGA/FordFellowships/PGA_047959
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalGeorge Melendez Wright Climate Change Fellowship
	website: http://coenv.washington.edu/students/melendez_wright/
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalSocial Science Research Council (SSRC) International Dissertation Research Fellowship
	website: http://www.ssrc.org/fellowships/idrf-fellowship/
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalVice Provost for Graduate Education (VPGE) Diversity Dissertation Research opportunity Fund (DDRO)
	website: http://vpge.stanford.edu/programs/ddro.html
	Deadline: November and April
	Source: StanfordGraduate Research Opportunities (GRO)
	website: http://www.stanford.edu/dept/humsci/cgi-bin/gus/content/current-funding#GRO
	Deadline: November and April
	Source: StanfordThe Wenner-Gren Foundation, Dissertation Fieldwork Grants
	website: http://www.wennergren.org/programs/dissertation-fieldwork-grants
	Deadline: November and May
	Source: ExternalChateaubriand Fellowship - Humanities & Social Sciences (HSS)
	Website: http://humanities.chateaubriand-fellowship.org/
	Deadline: January
	Source: ExternalSmithsonian Institution Fellowship Program
	Website: http://www.si.edu/OFI/SIFELL
	Deadline: January
	Source: ExternalSmithsonian Institution Latino Studies Fellowship Program
	Website: http://www.si.edu/ofg/Applications/LSFELL/LSFELLapp.htm
	Deadline: January
	Source: ExternalNational Sciences Foundation - Law and Social Sciences program
	website: http://www.nsf.gov/sbe/ses/law/lawguide1.jsp
	Deadline: January
	Source: ExternalSocial Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, Joseph-Armand Bombardier Canada 
	Graduate Scholarships Program Doctoral Scholarships, and SSHRC Doctoral Fellowships
	website: http://www.sshrc-crsh.gc.ca/funding-financement/programs-programmes/fell...
	Deadline: January
	Source: ExternalVice Provost for Graduate Education (VPGE) Stanford Interdisciplinary Graduate Fellowship (SIGF)
	website: http://vpge.stanford.edu/SIGF/SIGF_apply.html
	Deadline: January and March
	Source: StanfordNational Science Foundation - Cultural Anthropology program
	website: http://www.nsf.gov/sbe/bcs/anthro/suppdiss.jsp
	Deadline: January and August
	Source: ExternalNational Science Foundation - Biological Anthropology
	website: http://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5407
	Deadline: January and August
	Source: ExternalFulbright Public Policy Fellowship
	website: http://icenter.stanford.edu/orc/fulbright-public-policy.html
	Deadline: February
	Source: ExternalSusan Ford Dorsey Fellowship for Field Research in Africa
	website: http://africanstudies.stanford.edu/node/1137
	Deadline: May
	Source: StanfordFulbright Hays
	website: http://icenter.stanford.edu/orc/ful_hays.html
	Deadline: June
	Source: ExternalAmerican Institute of Indian Studies Junior Research Fellowship
	website: http://www.indiastudies.org/research-fellowship-programs/categories-of-f...
	Deadline: July
	Source: ExternalNational Science Foundation - Archaeology program
	website: http://www.nsf.gov/sbe/bcs/arch/suppdiss.jsp
	Deadline: No deadline
	Source: ExternalFreeman Spogli Institute
	website: http://fsi.stanford.edu/fellowships/cddrl_fellowships/
	Deadline: Various
	Source: StanfordLeakey Foundation
	Website: http://leakeyfoundation.org/grants/overview
	Deadline: January and July
	Source: ExternalRobert and Patricia Switzer Foundation Fellowship Program
	Website: http://www.switzernetwork.org/grant-programs/fellowship-program/
	Deadline: January
	Source: ExternalNational Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship
	Website: http://nsfgrfp.org/
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalDiversity Dissertation Research Opportunity Fund (VPGE)
	Website: http://vpge.stanford.edu/programs/ddro.html
	Deadline: November and April
	Source: InternalDiversifying Academia, Recruiting Excellence Doctoral Fellowships Opportunity Fund (VPGE)
	Website: http://vpge.stanford.edu/programs/dare.html
	Deadline: April
	Source: InternalStanford Interdisciplinary Graduate Fellowship (VPGE)
	Website: http://vpge.stanford.edu/SIGF/index.html
	Deadline: March
	Source: InternalCenter for East Asian Studies Fellowships
	Website: http://ceas.stanford.edu/students/fellowships.php
	Deadline: February
	Source: Internal© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe funding opportunities listed below, are structured to provide financial support for graduate students at the early stages of their graduate studies. Grants and fellowships awards can be given for one or more years.National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship
	Website: http://nsfgrfp.org/
	Deadline: November (this extramural funding application may submitted before submission of a graduate admission application to a Ph.D. degree program)
	Source: ExternalPaul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans
	Website: http://nsfgrfp.org/
	Website: http://www.pdsoros.org/
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalScience to Achieve Results (STAR) Fellowships
	Website: http://epa.gov/ncer/rfa/2013/2013_star_gradfellow.html#Synopsis
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalWenner-Gren: The Wadsworth African Fellowships
	Website: http://nsfgrfp.org/
	Website: http://www.wennergren.org/programs/wadsworth-african-fellowships
	Deadline: December
	Source: ExternalWenner-Gren: Wadsworth International Fellowships
	Website: http://nsfgrfp.org/
	Website: http://www.wennergren.org/programs/wadsworth-international-fellowships
	Deadline: March
	Source: ExternalCenter for South Asia Fellowships
	Website: http://southasia.stanford.edu/fellowships
	Deadline: April
	Source: InternalExplorers Club
	Website: http://www.explorers.org
	Deadline: November
	Source: ExternalKnight-Hennessy Scholars Program
	Website: https://knight-hennessy.stanford.edu
	Deadline: September (this intramural Scholars Program application must be submitted before submission of a graduate admissions application to a Ph.D. degree program)
	Source: Internal© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Department of Anthropology offers the following advanced degrees: the Master of Arts (MA) in Anthropology and the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Anthropology.The Graduate Admissions season is open beginning in September each year for applications to be submitted by the published deadline in December [for matriculation beginning in the following academic year]. Decision status information will be available in March. After April 15th each year, the Graduate Admissions season is closed until the following September.April 2017 - August 2017: Graduate Application period is closed
	September 2017 - December 2017: Graduate Application period opens
	March 2018 - Decision status is available © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents may pursue two different tracks in the Anthropology Ph.D. degree program. The tracks are not declarable in AXESS; they do not appear on the transcript or the diploma.  The scope of cultural and social anthropology at Stanford includes the study of the full range of human societies and cultures, especially as these are drawn together in transnational and global interactions. The Culture and Society track faculty are committed to an intellectually rigorous and socially responsible pursuit of answers to questions that urgently matter in the contemporary world. The track has a focus on understanding a wide range of issues in the comparative study of society and culture. These include issues of: Faculty are engaged in ethnographic and documentary research informed by a wide array of theoretical perspectives, and focused on both traditional and emerging topics. The archaeology track is committed to giving students a strong basis in the discipline and its ethical standards while providing the opportunity for diverse and open-minded inquiry in facing the challenges that confront archaeologists today. There is a strong global range of interests, with student and faculty researchers working from Southeast Asia to Europe, Africa and the Americas. These research interests include:Students accepted into the graduate program participate in the activities of the Archaeology Center. The Center through the cutting-edge research carried out in its research laboratories and through its program of distinguished visiting scholars, workshops and public lecture programs provides a forum for interaction amongst faculty and students in different parts of the University and gives students opportunities to engage in multi- and interdisciplinary research in archaeology and related fields.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Date and Time:  Thursday, October 11, 2012 - 7:30pmFlyer:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsGraduate Student Conference, Stanford University, October 10-12, 2012 Graduate Student Conference, Stanford University, April 23-24, 2010 Graduate Student Conference, Stanford University,  April 7-8, 2006    © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsGSO representatives are volunteer leaders from across the department’s student cohorts and degree tracks. Each representative normally serves for two years.Pablo is a third-year doctoral student in the Culture and Society track whose current research concerns issues related to biopolitics, risk, subjectivity, and ethics in migrant squatter settlements in Chile.Profile | Directory John is a fifth-year doctoral candidate in the Culture and Society track, writing about nature interpretation, water management, and identity in North Florida.Profile | Directory Paul is a third-year doctoral student in the Archaeology track, focused on the intersections of heritage, archaeology, and politics in the Gulf and Middle East.Profile | Directory © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThis section provides anthropology graduate (and, in some cases undergraduate students) with information to identify and apply for grants and fellowships at a variety of stages during a  graduate academic career. The resources provided below direct students to common grant and fellowship sponsoring organizations at Stanford University (intramural) and at organizations external to Stanford University (extramural)The Department of Anthropology is not responsible for the content or information provided below.http://med.stanford.edu/rmg/funding/funding_database.htmlhttp://highwire.stanford.edu/lists/portals.dtlhttp://www-sul.stanford.edu/guides/funding.htmlRecommended webpage references for proposal and thesis writing (formatting and style) information include the following:http://www-tcad.stanford.edu/~goojs/RESEARCH/thesis.htmlhttp://help-csli.stanford.edu/tex/suthesishttp://www.aaanet.org/publications/guidelines.cfmhttp://esapubs.org/esapubs/preparation.htmhttp://www.saa.org/AbouttheSociety/Publications/StyleGuide/tabid/984/Def...http://www.press.uchicago.edu/journals/ca/style.html?journal=cahttp://www.sha.org/publications/for_authors.cfmhttp://www.stanford.edu/~jhj1/grant-advice.html© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe purpose of the Master of Arts degree program is to further develop knowledge and skills in Anthropology and to prepare students for a professional career or doctoral studies. This is achieved through completion of courses in the primary field, as well as related areas, and through experience with independent work, area specialization and field research.Download the Department of Anthropology Graduate Program Flyer and the Department of Anthropology Graduate Handbook for information concerning the Anthropology Graduate degree programs. These references can be found on the  Graduate Forms and References page.For more detailed description of the Anthropology Master of Arts Program, please refer to the Stanford University Bulletin Explore Degrees .The Department of Anthropology offers the terminal master's degree to the following:Graduate applicants who apply from outside the University and whose ultimate goal is the Ph.D. degree should apply directly to the Ph.D. degree program. Applicants who are offered admission to the terminal M.A. degree program may not transfer to the Ph.D. degree program; they must reapply on the same basis as other Ph.D. applicants and in competition with the Ph.D. applicants.Graduate students taking an advanced degree in other departments or schools at Stanford and who apply for admission to the M.A. in Anthropology are governed by separate requirements as described in the Anthropology Graduate Handbook and can be downloaded HERE.Anthropology Ph.D. students who decide to take the M.A. in Anthropology on the way to the Ph.D. are also governed by separate requirements described in the Anthropology Graduate Handbook which can be downloaded HERE.Graduate enrollment at Stanford University for three consecutive quarters of full tuition for at least 45 units is required of all candidates for the terminal master's degree. M.A. students in Anthropology must take a minimum of 45 units of Anthropology course work beyond the undergraduate degree with an overall grade point average of 3.0 or higher. 45 units constitute the University minimum for the M.A. degree, and courses must be at or above the 100 level.The M.A. program may require more than one year of study. However, full-time students entering the program with appropriate background should complete the M.A. degree program within three consecutive calendar quarters after the student's first quarter of master's-level enrollment. The University allows no transfer units into the master's program. To provide a meaningful master's program within one year, advance planning of course work with an adviser is required. Requirements for the terminal master's program must be completed within three years.Students may pursue two different tracks in the Anthropology M.A. degree program. The tracks are not declarable in Axess; they do not appear on the transcript or the diploma. The tracks are: © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe purpose of the Master of Arts degree program is to further develop knowledge and skills in Anthropology and to prepare students for a professional career or doctoral studies. This is achieved through completion of courses in the primary field, as well as related areas, and through experience with independent work, area specialization and field research.Download the Department of Anthropology Graduate Program Flyer and the Department of Anthropology Graduate Handbook for information concerning the Anthropology Graduate degree programs. These references can be found on the  Graduate Forms and References page.For more detailed description of the Anthropology Master of Arts Program, please refer to the Stanford University Bulletin Explore Degrees .The Department of Anthropology offers the terminal master's degree to the following:Graduate applicants who apply from outside the University and whose ultimate goal is the Ph.D. degree should apply directly to the Ph.D. degree program. Applicants who are offered admission to the terminal M.A. degree program may not transfer to the Ph.D. degree program; they must reapply on the same basis as other Ph.D. applicants and in competition with the Ph.D. applicants.Graduate students taking an advanced degree in other departments or schools at Stanford and who apply for admission to the M.A. in Anthropology are governed by separate requirements as described in the Anthropology Graduate Handbook and can be downloaded HERE.Anthropology Ph.D. students who decide to take the M.A. in Anthropology on the way to the Ph.D. are also governed by separate requirements described in the Anthropology Graduate Handbook which can be downloaded HERE.Graduate enrollment at Stanford University for three consecutive quarters of full tuition for at least 45 units is required of all candidates for the terminal master's degree. M.A. students in Anthropology must take a minimum of 45 units of Anthropology course work beyond the undergraduate degree with an overall grade point average of 3.0 or higher. 45 units constitute the University minimum for the M.A. degree, and courses must be at or above the 100 level.The M.A. program may require more than one year of study. However, full-time students entering the program with appropriate background should complete the M.A. degree program within three consecutive calendar quarters after the student's first quarter of master's-level enrollment. The University allows no transfer units into the master's program. To provide a meaningful master's program within one year, advance planning of course work with an adviser is required. Requirements for the terminal master's program must be completed within three years.Students may pursue two different tracks in the Anthropology M.A. degree program. The tracks are not declarable in Axess; they do not appear on the transcript or the diploma. The tracks are: © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints	Courses:	Funding:	Milestones:	Requirements:	Units: 	Courses:	Funding:	Units:Central or Other Department: [Download department forms at Graduate Forms and References]	Registrar: 	Courses:	Funding:	Other Requirements:	Units: 	Forms:Central or Other Department:	Registrar: 	Courses:	Funding:	Units: © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsCourses:Funding:Milestones:Other:Requirements:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Optional:Requirements:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms:   © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsTo request the Ph.D. Minor a prospective Minor should do take the following steps in the order detailed below. Identify a Minor advisor from the Department of Anthropology (Minor department) tenured or tenure-track faculty. Confirm a timeline for the Minor degree requirements (below); and, for the Minor advisor participation in both the Oral examination and Dissertation Reading committees. Submit the Application for Ph.D. Minor to the Department for Anthropology (Minor department) for signature to initiate a request for the Minor. Once signed, submit the application to the doctoral degree program Home department for signature and processing. The Application for Candidacy for Doctoral Degree should be submitted to the Home department at the time one hands in the Minor application, as well. Please copy the Minor department on the approved Candidacy form. Finally, submit a helpsu to the University registrar for confirmation of the Ph.D. Minor to the student record.The requirements for a Ph.D. Minor in the Department of Anthropology include the milestones and course/unit requirements listed below. A Ph.D. Minor in the department of Anthropology must complete a minimum of 30 units of ANTHRO subject code courses at the 300 level, each course should be completed with a minimum (GPA) of 3.0 (B). The Minor must enlist an ANTHRO faculty member who will provide written consent to serve as the adviser for the Ph.D. Minor as well as to serve on the student's Oral examination and Dissertation Reading committees. With the ANTHRO faculty adviser, the Ph.D. Minor determines a coherent plan of study and submits the Plan of Study Form with the Application for Ph.D. Minor to the Student Services Officer in the Department of Anthropology to initiate a request for the Minor. The Minor must pass, with a minimum grade of 'B+', three ANTHRO theory courses, and one ANTHRO course in a geographical or theoretical area. The completion of the course of study for the Ph.D. Minor must be confirmed before submitting the Request for Terminal Graduate Registration to the doctoral degree program home department.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsCourses:Funding:Optional:Requirements:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Units:Forms: Courses:Funding:Milestones:Requirements:Units:Forms: © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOur mission is to provide undergraduates with instruction in anthropology and a program of work leading to the bachelor's degree.The department offers the following four emphases:» Culture and Society » Ecology, Environment, and Evolution» Medical Anthropology» a Self-designed emphasisUndergraduate training in the department of Anthropology is designed for students who seek the bachelor of arts (B.A.) degree.  Students can also declare Anthropology as a minor.» Major» MinorSee steps to declare anthropology as your major or minor:» Major» MinorThe Honors Program and Senior Paper option in Anthropology provides majors the opportunity to conduct original research under the guidance of an Anthropology faculty member.» Honors Program Overview » Recommended Timeline» Available Funding » Additional Resources The Department of Anthropology offers a variety of field school, summer research, and travel research opportunities.» Field School » Summer Research Program » Travel Research Program Download various undergraduate forms and reference documents.Anthropology courses cover a wide range of topics and area studies within the field such as sociocultural anthropology, ecology, evolution, linguistics, medical anthropology, political economy, environmental anthropology, science and technology, and archaeology.”Peer advisors serve as a resource to undergraduate students for questions about course planning, departmental policies, declaration process, and events.CONTEXT: Undergraduate Research Journal in Anthropology is an annual publication comprised of scholarly articles and reviews written by Stanford undergraduates from all academic backgroundsThe Coterminal Master’s degree program allows Stanford undergraduates to study for a master’s degree while completing their bachelor’s degree(s). Students with strong academic records may apply for admission to a coterminal master’s program upon completion of 120 units.Undergrad admissions website Contact Undergraduate Student Services Officer Anahid Sarkissian:Three seniors discuss why they chose anthropology as their major.Three anthropology seniors discuss their field research projects.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe department offers the following four emphasis:The scope of cultural and social anthropology at Stanford includes the study of the full range of human societies and cultures, especially as these are drawn together in transnational and global interactions. The track has a focus on understanding a wide range of issues in the comparative study of society and culture. Read More »Environment and Ecology track focuses on the dynamic relationship between the human organism and its natural and social environment. The track provides a cross-disciplinary, theoretical approach to the ecology of human-environmental dynamics, including behavioral ecology, political ecology, evolutionary ecology, zooarchaeology and ethnoarchaeology, the human dimensions of global change, demography, biological anthropology, and human population ecology. Read More »Medical anthropology is the study of how health and illness are shaped, experienced, and understood in light of global, historical, and political forces. It is one of the most exciting subfields of anthropology and has increasingly clear relevance for students and professionals interested in the complexity of disease states, diagnostic categories, and what comes to count as pathology or health. Read More »Students in the self-designed emphasis will work with their faculty advisor to discuss their emphasis interests and ideas in order to design an approved plan of study. This plan of study may include core emphasis courses from the Culture and Society, EEE, or Medical Anthropology fields. Read More »© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe scope of cultural and social anthropology at Stanford includes the study of the full range of human societies and cultures, especially as these are drawn together in transnational and global interactions. The Culture and Society track faculty are committed to an intellectually rigorous and socially responsible pursuit of answers to questions that urgently matter in the contemporary world. The track has a focus on understanding a wide range of issues in the comparative study of society and culture. These include issues of:Faculty are engaged in ethnographic and documentary research informed by a wide array of theoretical perspectives, and focused on both traditional and emerging topics.Required: ANTHRO 90B-Theory of Culture and Social Anthropology
	Required: ANTRHO 91-Methods and Evidence in AnthropologyExample of Courses within the Culture and Society Emphasis (20 units required)© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe scope of cultural and social anthropology at Stanford includes the study of the full range of human societies and cultures, especially as these are drawn together in transnational and global interactions. The Culture and Society track faculty are committed to an intellectually rigorous and socially responsible pursuit of answers to questions that urgently matter in the contemporary world. The track has a focus on understanding a wide range of issues in the comparative study of society and culture. These include issues of:Faculty are engaged in ethnographic and documentary research informed by a wide array of theoretical perspectives, and focused on both traditional and emerging topics.Required: ANTHRO 90B-Theory of Culture and Social Anthropology
	Required: ANTRHO 91-Methods and Evidence in AnthropologyExample of Courses within the Culture and Society Emphasis (20 units required)© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsEnvironment and Ecology track focuses on the dynamic relationship between the human organism and its natural and social environment. Coursework and research opportunities associated with the track provides students with a fundamental theoretical and methodological foundation for investigating processes that shape temporal and spatial distributions and interactions of people, land, and the resources they utilize. The track provides a cross-disciplinary, theoretical approach to the ecology of human-environmental dynamics, including behavioral ecology, political ecology, evolutionary ecology, zooarchaeology and ethnoarchaeology, the human dimensions of global change, demography, biological anthropology, and human population ecology. Faculty focus on how processes of evolutionary change, both biological and cultural, create variability and plasticity in human behavior, bodies, culture and social systems and on the ways that such variability interacts dynamically with biotic and social environments at various spatial scales. Specific research strengths include:Required: ANTHRO 90C: Theory of Ecological and Environmental Anthropology
	Required: ANTRHO 91-Methods and Evidence in AnthropologyExample of Courses within the EE Emphasis (20 units required)© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsMedical anthropology is the study of how health and illness are shaped, experienced, and understood in light of global, historical, and political forces. It is one of the most exciting subfields of anthropology and has increasingly clear relevance for students and professionals interested in the complexity of disease states, diagnostic categories, and what comes to count as pathology or health.At Stanford some of our principal areas of inquiry include cultures of medicine, the social nature of emergent biotechnology, the economics of bodily injury, psychic expressions of disorder, the formation of social networks on health, the lived consequences of disability and inequality, and ever-changing concepts of human biological difference and race. Several of our core faculty research these issues in increasingly important geographical areas in the world today. These include Africa, Asia, and Latin America in addition to the United States and its borderlands. We engage with patients, health scientists, and larger publics at home and abroad in order to contribute to a more robust understanding of the coproduction of disease and phenomena like poverty, social status, global standing, racism, and nationalism. Our program seeks students who creatively imagine interdisciplinary approaches to health questions, wish to increase dialogue with medical professionals, and aim to rethink operative principles within science and medicine.  For more information regarding the Medical Anthropology emphasis, see HERE.Required: ANTHRO 90B-Theory of Culture and Social Anthropology
	Required: ANTRHO 91-Methods and Evidence in AnthropologyExample of Courses within the Medical Anthropology Emphasis (20 units required)© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents who choose the self-designed emphasis will work with their faculty advisor to discuss their emphasis interests and ideas in order to design an approved plan of study. This plan of study may include core emphasis courses from the Culture and Society, EEE, or Medical Anthropology fields. Please see the Student Services Officer for more details.Required Theory Course: ANTHRO 90B: Theory of Culture and Social Anthropology OR ANTHRO 90C: Theory of Ecological and Environmental Anthropology (To be discussed with your faculty advisor and Student Services Officer. Course taken will depend on the theme of the self-designed emphasis.)Required Methods Course: ANTHRO 91: Methods and Evidence in Anthropology© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe honors program in Anthropology provides eligible Anthropology majors with an opportunity to conduct original ethnographic, field, laboratory, or library-based research under the guidance of an Anthropology faculty member. All Anthropology majors are urged to consider applying to the departmental honors program in Anthropology. Interested Anthropology majors of junior standing may apply for admission to the honors program by applying first in Axess, submitting an honors application form, including a research topic/title of the proposed honors project, a two page abstract/proposal, a transcript, and a letter of reference from their faculty or honors adviser to the undergraduate student services officer on or by February 15th in the junior year.Department majors are eligible to apply for honors candidacy with a 3.4 GPA in the department major, a 3.0 GPA in overall course work, and with no more than one incomplete listed on the transcript at the time of application*. Students must submit the final draft of their Honors Thesis to their Honors Advisor (1st Reader), 2nd reader, and the Undergraduate Student Services Officer electronically, or printed, no later than May 13th, 2018. Honors Advisors must complete a Certificate of Honors Eligibility Form, provided by the Student Services Officer, to confirm a student’s Honors status no later than May 20, 2018. If ineligible, students must withdraw their application to the Honors Program. Students interested in the Honors Program are encouraged to apply for summer research funding through the Department of Anthropology, Undergraduate Advising and Research, and area studies centers. This process requires planning as the Spring Quarter research deadline falls before the honors application due date. In most case, honors students apply for such funding early in the junior year.* Students who do not meet this requirement may pursue the Senior Paper option.FormatGradingReaders Content Outline© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents are encouraged to apply for research funding through the following grants:1) Michelle Z. Rosaldo Summer Field Research Grant2) Franz Boas Summer Scholars3) Undergraduate Advising and Research (UAR) Student Grants© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe senior paper program in Anthropology provides majors the opportunity to conduct original research under the guidance of an Anthropology faculty member. All Anthropology majors are encouraged to write a senior paper. Interested Anthropology majors of junior standing may apply to the senior paper program by submitting a senior paper application form, including a research topic/title of the proposed senior paper project, a two page abstract/proposal, and a letter of reference from their faculty adviser to the Undergraduate Student Services Officer on or by February 15th in the junior year. All students are eligible regardless of GPA.  Enrollment in ANTHRO 95, Research in Anthropology, is recommended during Autumn and Winter quarters of the senior year. Students must enroll in ANTHRO 95B, Honors or Senior Paper, in the final quarter of the undergraduate degree program before graduating. The senior paper is submitted in the final quarter before graduation. For more information, see the Undergraduate Student Services Officer.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsSteps to declare anthropology as your major: © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsSteps to declare anthropology as minor: © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsUndergraduate training in the department of Anthropology is designed for students who seek the bachelor of arts (B.A.) degree only. Students may declare a major in Anthropology and earn the B.A. degree by following the requirements below. The B.A. degree program usually requires at least five quarters of enrollment. Students interested in majoring in Anthropology are encouraged to declare by the beginning of their junior year and to work closely with an adviser to develop a coherent program of study.The B.A. degree in Anthropology may be earned by fulfilling the following requirements:Advising is an important component of the Anthropology major. Students are encouraged to work closely with their major adviser throughout their pursuit of the degree.Advising milestones for the major include the following:Courses listed are recommended for students writing an honors research paper or senior paper in the major:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsTo declare a minor in Anthropology, apply in Axess; contact the department's undergraduate student services officer to prepare the minor checklist and the minor planning form; submit the required forms to the undergraduate student services officer; request a faculty adviser assignment; and meet with the assigned faculty adviser for approval of the minor checklist and planning form. These forms are available at Undergraduate Forms and References. Students must apply in Axess for the undergraduate minor in Anthropology by the last day of the quarter at least two quarters before degree conferral.Requirements for the minor in Anthropology include the following:Advising milestones for the minor include the following:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe courses offered by the Department of Anthropology are designed to: provide undergraduates with instruction in anthropology; provide undergraduate majors in Anthropology with a program of work leading to the bachelor's degree; and prepare graduate candidates for advanced degrees in Anthropology.The department expects undergraduate majors in the degree program to be able to demonstrate the following learning outcomes. These learning outcomes are used in evaluating students and the department's undergraduate program. Students are expected to demonstrate:For more information, see Anthropology Stanford Bulletin.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Anthropology Peer Advisors if you have questions or concerns about:Building 50, Room 52Darh2020@stanford.edu 
	Office Hour:
	Mondays: 10:30am-12:30pmzechnich@stanford.edu
	Office Hour:
	Thursdays: 12:00 - 2:00pm© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAutumn Winter Spring SummerMeet with Faculty Advisor to explore and discuss research ideas and themes. Develop a research proposal.Submit Honors Program Application no later than February 15th to the Undergraduate Student Services Officer. Apply undergraduate research grants through the Department of Anthropology and UAR. Apply for Honors via Axess.Ensure all documentation for travel and funding (if awarded) is completed and submitted to the Undergraduate Student Services Officer. Detailed instructions will be sent to students upon acceptance into the Honors Program.Conduct research and maintain communication with Honors Advisor and department staff with regards to changes and updates.Required Enrollment: none Required Enrollment: none Required Enrollment: ANTHRO 93: Pre-field Research Seminar (offered in Spring Quarter only).Required Enrollment: none Recommended Enrollment: ANTHRO 92A or 92B: Undergraduate Research Proposal Writing Workshop.Recommended Enrollment: ANTHRO 92A or 92B: Undergraduate Research Proposal Writing Workshop.Recommended Enrollment: NARecommended Enrollment: Bing Honors College, 3 weeks in early September prior to Autumn Quarter.Autumn Winter Spring By November 15th, submit a draft outline to your Honors Advisor (1st reader) to allow adequate review time. Schedule a meeting with your Honors Advisor well in advance of the November 15th deadline to allow time to incorporate feedback into the final outline.Select a 2nd reader prior to Winter Quarter.By January 31st, submit a draft (including literature review, bibliography, and table of contents) to your Honors Advisor to allow sufficient time to review provide suggestions. Honors candidates should schedule a meeting with their Honors Advisor to review feedback and revisions.  By April 4th, submit preliminary draft to honors advisor (1st reader). Honors candidates are responsible for scheduling an appointment with their 1st reader to receive feedback on the preliminary draft to allow sufficient time for necessary revisions.
					By May 13th, submit the final draft of Honors Research Paper to your Honors Advisor (1st Reader), and 2nd reader. Include The Honors Paper Signature Sheet and a copy of the honors program requirements as listed on the application when submitting final paper to the readers.  
					 By May 20th, your Honors Advisor and 2nd reader must approve your research paper by signing off on the Honors Paper Signature Sheet. The Signature Sheet must include signatures from your Honors Advisor and 2nd reader and submitted to the Undergraduate Student Services Officer no later than May 20th. If a student does not receive a grade of “A-“or better on their paper, they must remove their Honors request via Axess.Required Enrollment: none Required Enrollment: noneRequired Enrollment: ANTHRO 95B for a minimum of 5 units. You must earn an A- or better to qualify for Honors. Recommended Enrollment:
					ANTHRO 94: Post-field Research Seminar (offered in Autumn quarter only).Recommended Enrollment:
					ANTHRO 199: Senior and Master's Paper Writing Workshop and/or ANTHRO 95: Research in AnthropologyRecommended Enrollment: NA © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Department of Anthropology offers a variety of field school, summer research, and travel research opportunities.Please note that application materials, eligibility and selection criteria are different for each fellowship; these are also subject to change each academic year.See FORMS to download an application. Please refer to the application for deadline and contact information. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsChavín de Huántar is a 3000-year-old monumental temple site located in the north-central Andes of Peru, sandwiched between the desert coast - one of the dryest deserts of the world - and the humid tropical Amazonian lowlands to the east. Chavin is ancestral to the famed Andean prehistoric states, culminating with the expansive Inca empire, which were primarily situated in coastal and sierra environments.The primary goal of the project is to accurately map, excavate, and conserve the site. Using laser theodolite surveying technology we have collected over 100,000 measured points, documenting the site topography, exterior architecture, and exterior sculptures, and the internal labyrinthine passageways known as the galleries. Dozens of excavations and conservation interventions have greatly increased our knowledge of the site, made spectacular finds, and left the site in ever-improving condition for long-term conservation and tourist visitation. We are now embarking on major excavations of the primary ritual structures, and also of the extensive underground passages in the site, with surprising results. Another project just beginning is evaluating the acoustic design of the well-preserved architecture, to see if there was intentional manipulation of sound during Chavin rituals. Individual students have conducted their own research at the site, resulting in undergraduate honors theses on significant topics such as site construction labor and the feline-human sculptures known as tenon heads.Students participating in the Chavin fieldwork are funded through VPUE, and will be in Peru for about 7 weeks during July and August. Application process takes place around the beginning of the year.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThrough the special Franz Boas fund, students may apply for funding of any anthropological research, including research in the subfields of linguistics, archaeology, ethnology, and biological anthropology. Students must work with a faculty advisor appointed in the Department of Anthropology throughout the research period, apply for a supplemental grant from Undergraduate Advising and Research, and submit a non-medical human subjects protocol for approval. The exact number of grants awarded will vary from year to year depending on the quality of applications submitted and the funds available. Franz Boas grants are awarded for field research conducted in the summer. Grant recipients must enroll in ANTHRO 93, Pre field Research Seminar in the spring quarter before departing for the summer field research and in ANTHRO 94, Post field Research Seminar in the autumn quarter after returning from the summer field research. On notification of a funding award, Boas Summer Scholars must write a letter to the donor explaining briefly how their grant funds will be used and how this project will contribute to the student’s education and future goals. Stanford undergraduates who will be returning to Stanford University to matriculate in the following autumn quarter as undergraduates or Coterminal Masters students are eligible to apply. Priority will be given to honors candidates majoring in Anthropology.See FORMS to download an application. Please refer to the application for deadline and contact information.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsA memorial fund which will be used for an annual award to a Stanford undergraduate to aid in carrying out summer ethnographic field research. Students must work with a faculty advisor appointed in the Department of Anthropology throughout the research period, apply for a supplemental grant from Undergraduate Advising and Research, and submit a non-medical human subjects protocol for approval. Preference will be given to projects concerning issues in feminist thought or symbolic anthropology. Michelle Z. Rosaldo grants are awarded for field research conducted in the summer. Grant recipients must enroll in ANTHRO 93, Pre field Research Seminar in the spring quarter before departing for the summer field research and in ANTHRO 94, Post field Research Seminar in the autumn quarter after returning from the summer field research. On notification of a funding award, Rosaldo Summer Scholars must write a letter to the donor explaining briefly how their grant funds will be used and how this project will contribute to the student’s education and future goals. Stanford undergraduates who will be returning to Stanford University to matriculate in the following autumn quarter as undergraduates or Coterminal Masters students are eligible to apply. Priority will be given to honors candidates majoring in Anthropology.See FORMS to download an application. Please refer to the application for deadline and contact information.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsCatalhoyuk excavation siteSince 2003, Stanford University's professor Ian Hodder has been taking a small number of undergraduate students (5-8 per season) on his long-running, international excavation at Çatalhöyük, near Konya, Turkey.The field season usually takes place in July and August, and most travel and living expenses for qualified students are funded through Stanford University's Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education (VPUE).The current excavations under the direction of Ian Hodder began in 1993. The site is a 9000-year-old town in central Turkey. It is famous for its great size (about 13 hectares) at an early date and its rich art and symbolism. The specific aims starting in 2003 are to use extensive excavation methods to open up larger areas of the site so that overall community structure can be studied, and so that larger numbers of buildings can be put on display for tourism.The students spend 4 weeks learning basic excavation methods (use of tools, soil description, sampling, artifact collection and analysis, recording, drawing, photography, data entry). They also have the opportunity to work more closely on the artifacts, bones, seeds, geology, digital recording, and conservation. The students create the primary data through excavation, and do most of the initial recording and classification. Çatalhöyük is one of the few sites where sampling and study strategies can be observed and learned on site due to the large number of specialists in residence.In contrast to other excavation projects offered through Stanford, Çatalhöyük requires very early registration for interested undergraduates. Because the Turkish government requires students' names to be listed on permit applications by the start of November, we must select undergraduate students in early October of each year .For more information, see www.catalhoyuk.com.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsNot offered 2016-2017© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsMap of Galapagos IslandsThis September, the Anthropology Department, in conjunction with Sophomore College and the Stanford Alumni Association, will again offer a special educational opportunity for Stanford sophomores of all majors: a course on "Darwin, Evolution, and Galapagos" including a 10-day Field Seminar to the Galapagos Islands of Ecuador, South America. This course is the fifteenth in a rotating annual series of Field Seminars that are designed to enhance the experiential learning opportunities of the Stanford curriculum (other seminars in the series include travel to the Amazon, Costa Rica, and elsewhere). In each case, a Sophomore College course ends with a trip to experience first-hand one or more of the places studied in class. After a preparatory seminar of their own, adult alumni and friends of the University join the class for the travel component.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContexts is an annual publication comprised of scholarly articles and reviews (book, film, art, and event reviews) written by Stanford undergraduates in all academic fields. The mission of Contexts is to provide a forum for students to share, discuss, and reflect upon social issues in a manner that demonstrates anthropological thought and modes of inquiry. CONTEXTS is published electronically on the web, with print issues released annually. For current as well as previous issues of undergrad journal, please see Undergrad Journal.Work published in CONTEXTS may be published elsewhere. However, please be conscious of other journals’ policy regarding exclusivity of rights, and keep CONTEXTS informed as to where your paper has been or may be published.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints