© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Department of History offers the following degree programs: Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Arts and Sciences, Master of Arts, and Doctor of Philosophy.History is a pragmatic discipline in which the analysis of change over time involves sifting the influences and perspectives that affect the course of events, and evaluating the different forms of evidence historians exploit to make sense of them. Teaching students how to weigh these sources and convert the findings into persuasive analysis lies at the heart of the department's teaching.The department expects undergraduate majors in the program to be able to demonstrate the following learning outcomes. These learning outcomes are used in evaluating students and the department's undergraduate program. Students are expected to demonstrate:Learn more about the undergraduate programThe primary goal of the Stanford Department of History's graduate program is the training of scholars. Most students who receive doctorates in the program go on to teach at colleges or universities. Other students have obtained positions in university administration and research.Learn more about the graduate programs© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Graduate seminar with Allyson Hobbs, author of A Chosen Exile: A History of Racial Passing in American Life.The primary goal of Stanford's Department of History's graduate program is the training of scholars. Most students who receive doctorates in the program will go on to teach at colleges or universities. Other students have positions in university administration and research.Learn more about the doctoral programThe department each year admits a limited number of undergraduates for coterminal B.A. and M.A. degrees in History. Coterminal applications are accepted during Autumn Quarter for admission in Spring Quarter; check with the History office for the application deadline. Applicants are responsible for checking their compliance with University coterminal requirements listed in the "Coterminal Bachelor's and Master's Degrees" section of this bulletin.Learn more about the masters program© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Each year, the department admits a limited number of undergraduates to its program leading to a Coterminal B.A. - M.A. degree in History. The application deadline will be December 5, 2017 for co-terming in the 2018-2019 academic year.Please see the Graduate Program Coordinator for information on co-terming.Co-terminal students must complete 15 full-time quarters cumulatively (or the equivalent including transfer credit) or 3 full quarters after completing 180 units, for a total of 225 units. Nine graduate-level courses (a minimum of 45 units) must be completed with B+ or better. All courses must be completed with a letter grade, and with the following distribution of coursework:Students must meet all requirements for both degrees; no course may be "double-counted."Some students apply in their junior year and complete their M.A. studies in their fourth year at Stanford; others apply in the senior year, planning their M.A. coursework for their fifth year at Stanford. It is advisable for senior-status applicants to track closely their completed units toward graduation. As soon as a co-term student reaches 180 units, s/he will be registered immediately with graduate status. Accordingly, such students will no longer have the option to "stop out" or to apply for PSO (Permit for Services Only) registration, both are options restricted to undergraduates. Achieving graduate status may have other consequences, depending upon each student's unique situation. For this reason, seniors at the time of application are advised to meet with the Registrar in order to plan wisely.Students applying for co-term admission must take the GRE exam, specify a field of study, select a faculty advisor, and should have a 3.75 GPA in history courses (or the equivalent if they are entering without a history major). Three letters of recommendation must be submitted (one from the current faculty advisor, one from the prospective M.A. advisor, and one other of the students choice) in addition to transcripts and the application form itself. The deadline for applying to the co-term program will be the same deadline date as the Ph.D./M.A. graduate program admissions. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Application deadline for Spring 2017-18: Tuesday, December 5, 2017 (this is a hard deadline, not a postmark deadline)Each year the department admits a limited number of undergraduates to its program leading to a co-terminal BA and MA degree in History. Some students apply in their junior year and complete their MA studies in their fourth year at Stanford. Others apply in their senior year, planning their MA coursework for their fifth year at Stanford.Applicants must meet the same general standards as those seeking admission to the MA program. The requirements are as follows:Students from departments other than History should have done sufficient work in History. Students should be done with their undergraduate major by the start of the program. Conferral of the BA is restricted the quarter after admission of the co-terminal program. For instance, if admission is for Spring quarter, conferral of the BA must be for Summer quarter or later.Please keep in mind that courses cannot be "double-counted" towards both degrees. For more information about the Co-terminal Program, please refer to the Registrar's web page: Coterminal Online Application© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Admission to the graduate program in history is highly selective. About 10-15 students, admitted from a large pool of applicants, matriculate in the program each year. The small cohort size allows more individual work with faculty than most graduate programs. This helps to make funding in one form or another more available to most students admitted to the Ph.D. program.History has the following 14 Major fields for satisfying the Ph.D.:The department expects most graduate students to spend no less than four and no more than six years completing the work for the Ph.D. degree. Individual students' time to degree will vary with the strength of their undergraduate preparation as well as with the particular language and research requirements of their respective Major fields.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.The History Department Fellowship offers 5 years of financial support to PhD students. The fellowship provides support for tuition and a stipend. The funding package includes a combination of fellowship stipends, teaching assistantships (TAships), and research assistantships (RAships). Currently, the fellowship includes support for 4 summers.Here is a sample of how a PhD student is funded:Unfortunately, no funding is offered for the coterminal and terminal MA programs© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.History's 2015-16 Graduate Student Representatives are: Daniella Farah is a Ph.D. candidate studying the religious and cultural histories of Jewish populations of Iran, Turkey, and Central Asia in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Her research seeks to ascertain how Jews' identities were affected by their minority status, and the significance of religious identity in forming national subjects. She is also interested in memory’s impact upon Middle Eastern and Central Asian Jewish diasporic narratives.Rachel Midura is a fourth-year history PhD Candidate and fellow at the Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis at Stanford University. She is currently at work on my dissertation, "The Published Courier: The Culture of the Post in Northern Italy, 1550-1720." Rachel approach the seventeenth century as an information age created by the printing press and the European postal network. In her research, she revisits traditional social, cultural and material historical approaches in order to incorporate twenty-first century understanding of media and social networks. She is dedicated to increasing the accessibility of historical knowledge through digital curation and annotation, as shown by work with related collaborations, such as The Galileo Correspondence and Grand Tour Projects. Find out more here © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Application deadline for Autumn 2018-19: Tuesday, December 5, 2017, midnight EST (this is a hard deadline, not a postmark deadline).Admission to the History Graduate Programs are for Autumn quarter only.Application requirements:*Mail 2 copies of Official Transcripts to:Graduate Admissions
									Department of History
									450 Serra Mall
									Stanford, CA  94305-2024To apply online and/or to obtain a Guide to Graduate Admissions, please see the following web site:http://gradadmissions.stanford.edu/ All application material is available online. Unfortunately, there is no information sent out in mailings.Knight-Hennessy ScholarsKnight-Hennessy Scholars is designed to build a multidisciplinary community of Stanford graduate students dedicated to finding creative solutions to the world's greatest challenges. The program awards up to 100 high-achieving students every year with full funding to pursue a graduate education at Stanford, including the terminal Master's and PhD in History. To be considered, you must apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars by September 27, 2017, and separately apply to the History department by November 15, 2017.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.For students enrolled in the terminal or coterminal MA** programs.A program proposal is due in the first quarter to the Graduate Program Coordinator.**The Coterminal MA program is only available to current Stanford undergraduates.Coterminal students should apply online to graduate in early April for Spring Quarter. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.University requirements for the M.A. are described in the "Graduate Degrees" section of this bulletin.The department requires the completion of nine courses (totaling not less than 45 units) of graduate work; seven courses of this work must be Department of History courses. Of the seven, one must be a seminar and four must be either graduate colloquia or graduate seminars. Directed reading may be counted for a maximum of 10 units. A candidate whose undergraduate training in history is deemed inadequate must complete nine courses of graduate work in the department. The department does not recognize for credit toward the M.A. degree any work that has not received the grade of 'A' or 'B.' © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations. To download or print the Ph.D. handbook click on the link below.Click here to download the Ph. D. handbook in PDF format© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Students pursuing a PhD other than in History may apply for the PhD Minor in History. PhD students cannot pursue a minor in their own program.The minimum University requirement for a PhD minor is 20 units of History coursework at the graduate level (courses numbered 300 and above) at Stanford. All units should be in a single field. Units taken for the minor can be counted as part of the overall requirement for the PhD of 135 units done at Stanford. Courses used for a minor may not be used also to meet the requirements for a master's degree.A PhD minor form outlining the program of study must be approved by the major and minor departments. The form can be found herehttp://studentaffairs.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/registrar/files/app_phd_minor.pdf © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Admission to the graduate program in history is highly selective. About 10-15 students, admitted from a large pool of applicants, matriculate in the program each year. The small cohort size allows more individual work with faculty than most graduate programs. This helps to make funding in one form or another more available to most students admitted to the Ph.D. program.History has the following 14 Major fields for satisfying the Ph.D.:The department expects most graduate students to spend no less than four and no more than six years completing the work for the Ph.D. degree. Individual students' time to degree will vary with the strength of their undergraduate preparation as well as with the particular language and research requirements of their respective Major fields.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Application deadline for Autumn 2018-19: Tuesday, December 5, 2017, midnight EST (this is a hard deadline, not a postmark deadline).Admission to the History Graduate Programs are for Autumn quarter only.*Mail 2 copies of Official Transcripts to:Graduate Admissions
	Department of History
	450 Serra Mall
	Stanford, CA  94305-2024To apply online and/or to obtain a Guide to Graduate Admissions, please see the following web site:http://gradadmissions.stanford.edu/ All application material is available online. Unfortunately, there is no information sent out in mailings.Knight-Hennessy ScholarsKnight-Hennessy Scholars is designed to build a multidisciplinary community of Stanford graduate students dedicated to finding creative solutions to the world's greatest challenges. The program awards up to 100 high-achieving students every year with full funding to pursue a graduate education at Stanford, including the terminal Master's and PhD in History. To be considered, you must apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars by September 27, 2017, and separately apply to the History department by November 15, 2017.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.Students who enter on the Department Fellowship are required to complete 4 quarters of teaching experience. Teaching must be completed by the end of the student's third year in the program. Teaching experience includes teaching assistantships and teaching their own Sources and Methods course.Students apply for candidacy to the PhD program by the end of their second year in the program.The University Orals Examination is typically taken at the beginning of the 3rd year in the program.Language requirements vary depending on the field of study.The Department of History expects most PhD students to spend no less than four and no more than six years to complete work for the PhD degree.135 units of full-tuition residency are required for PhD students. After that, a student should have completed all course work and must request Terminal Graduate Registration (TGR) status.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory's Graduate students study a wide range of time periods and geographical locations.University requirements for the M.A. are described in the "Graduate Degrees" section of this bulletin.The department requires the completion of nine courses (totaling not less than 45 units) of graduate work; seven courses of this work must be Department of History courses. Of the seven, one must be a seminar and four must be either graduate colloquia or graduate seminars. Directed reading may be counted for a maximum of 10 units. A candidate whose undergraduate training in history is deemed inadequate must complete nine courses of graduate work in the department. The department does not recognize for credit toward the M.A. degree any work that has not received the grade of 'A' or 'B.' © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsPeer advisors with prospective History majors. Six pathways lead to the B.A. in History at Stanford: General History; Global Affairs and World History; History, Philosophy, and the Arts; History of Science and Medicine; Public History/Public Service; and History and Law. The Department of History has recently added a joint major program in Computer Science + History. Learn more about the undergraduate majorCandidates for the minor in History must complete six courses, at least three of which must have a field or thematic focus.Learn more about the undergraduate minorFor a limited number of majors, the department offers a special program leading to Departmental Honors in History.Learn more about honorsThe department each year admits a limited number of undergraduates for coterminal B.A. and M.A. degrees in History. Coterminal applications are accepted during Autumn Quarter for admission in Spring Quarter; check with the History office for the application deadline.Learn more about cotermingThe first step in becoming a History major is finding a Faculty Advisor. Learn more about how to declare© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHolly DaytonNathan Hausman, Palestinian Resistance to Iraq's Occupation of Kuwait: A Reconsideration of Palestinian Collaboration with the Ba'ath Party.Holly Dayton, "The Bad Theater" of the Great War: A Cultural History of Performance on the West End during the First World War. (Advisor: Priya Satia)Nathan Hausman, Palestinian Resistance to Iraq's Occupation of Kuwait: A Reconsideration of Palestinian Collaboration with the Ba'ath Party. Michael Gioia, The Revolutionary Priest: An Intellectual Biography of Claude Fauchet. (Advisor: Keith Baker)Michael Henry Ishitani, The Last American Aristocracy: Alexander Addison and the Culture of Judicial Power in Jeffersonian Pennsylvania.  (Advisor: Jack Rakove)Rory Houghton-Berry, The Ideal Medieval State?  Examining Norman England and its Relations with the Papacy During the Investiture Controversy.  (Advisor: Fiona Griffiths)Soo Ji Lee, Photographing for Change: Reinterpreting Bob Fitch's Photographs of the Civil Rights Movement and United Farm Workers Movement.  (Advisor: Ana Minian)Neel Thakkar, "All the World in my Hut": Colonial Broadcasting, Ideologies of Rule, and the Making of a Listening Public in Northern Rhodesia, 1935-1963.  (Advisor: Priya Satia)Pearle Lun, Being Matteo Ricci: Secular & Spiritual Pathways of a Jesuit in China.Dina Hassan, "The Canary Looks at the Crow": Hikida Yasuichi and Japanese Interest in Afro-America during the Second World War.  (Advisor: Jun Uchida)Jacob Sonnenberg, Legend and Legacy: A Rhetorical History of Lewis and Clark.  Benjamin Mercer-Golden, Revisiting the Iraq War, the Surge and the Rise of ISIS: Time for a Reassessment of American Power?Sarah SadlierValerie Stevens, A Love Triangle: Race, Sexuality, and Leprosy on Molokai.Elle Stuart, The Polar Bear in the Room: The Role of Institutions in the Changing Arctic.  (Honors thesis in International Security Studies) Jeremy Schreier, How Can We Sing the Song of the Lord in a Foreign Land?  Jewish Music and Identity in the Life and Work of Salamone Rossi (ca. 1570-1630).  (Advisor: Paula Findlen) © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsEach year, the department admits a limited number of undergraduates to its program leading to a co-terminal B.A. - M.A. degree in History. The application deadline will be December 2, 2014 for co-terming in the 2015-2016 academic year.Please see the Graduate Program Coordinator for information on co-terming.Coterminal students must complete 15 full-time quarters cumulatively (or the equivalent including transfer credit) or 3 full quarters after completing 180 units, for a total of 225 units. Nine graduate-level courses (a minimum of 45 units) must be completed with B+ or better. All courses must be completed with a letter grade, and with the following distribution of coursework:Students must meet all requirements for both degrees; no course may be "double-counted."Some students apply in their junior year and complete their M.A. studies in their fourth year at Stanford; others apply in the senior year, planning their M.A. coursework for their fifth year at Stanford. It is advisable for senior-status applicants to track closely their completed units toward graduation. As soon as a co-term student reaches 180 units, s/he will be registered immediately with graduate status. Accordingly, such students will no longer have the option to "stop out" or to apply for PSO (Permit for Services Only) registration, both are options restricted to undergraduates. Achieving graduate status may have other consequences, depending upon each student's unique situation. For this reason, seniors at the time of application are advised to meet with the Registrar in order to plan wisely.Students applying for co-term admission must take the GRE exam, specify a field of study, select a faculty advisor, and should have a 3.75 GPA in history courses (or the equivalent if they are entering without a history major). Three letters of recommendation must be submitted (one from the current faculty advisor, one from the prospective M.A. advisor, and one other of the students choice) in addition to transcripts and the application form itself. The deadline for applying to the co-term program will be the same deadline date as the Ph.D./M.A. graduate program admissions.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHistory Major Declaration FormGeneral History Track WorksheetGlobal Affairs and World History Track WorksheetHistory and Law Track WorksheetHistory, Philosophy, and the Arts Track WorksheetHistory of Science and Medicine Track WorksheetPublic History/Public Service Track WorksheetHistory Minor Progress Evaluation Worksheet Honors Handbook 2017-18Registration Form- Preliminary Copy Registration Form- Final CopyHonors Calendar 2017-18Petition for Modification of Departmental Requirements Petition for Application of Outside Course Work to History Department RequirementsPetition for Exemption from Six Quarters of Registration in the History MajorStudent Consent to Release Information Form  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsProfessor Thomas S. MullaneyNaomi Subotnickherodotusjournal@gmail.comJason SeterGabriela RomeroInHae Yap                                                                                                                     © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHow does an honors thesis differ from a long paper, or from a graduate thesis? This is a key question to discuss with your faculty advisers: establishing a scope for the thesis is your first challenge. In general, however, a thesis attempts, through analysis of primary sources, to address a new question or to reinterpret a moment in history, an undertaking spurred by a willingness to question accepted versions of a story and to expand on the understanding of the past. Fidelity to primary sources in constructing an argument and a solid grasp of the existing work on the topic are crucial to the project, as is patience with the writing and revision process. One of the rewards of original research, and a question to keep you engaged as you work, is the significance of the ideas you present.Students accepted for the Honors program, in additional to fulfilling the general requirements stated above, begin work as early as Spring Quarter of the junior year and complete the essay by mid-May of the senior year. In addition to HISTORY 299H Junior Honors Colloquium, students must enroll in 11-15 units of Senior Research in the senior year, to be distributed as best fits their specific project.  For students in the Honors program, Senior Research units HISTORY 299A Senior Research I, HISTORY 299B, Senior Research II, and HISTORY 299C Senior Research III are taken in addition to the 13 required courses in History.Outstanding honors essays may be considered for the University's Robert M. Golden Medals, as well as for departmental James Birdsall Weter prizes.To enter this program, the student must be accepted by a member of the department who agrees to advise the research and writing of the essay, and must complete the Junior Honors Colloquium (299H) offered in Winter Quarter. An exception to the latter requirement may be made for those studying overseas Winter Quarter of the junior year, but such students should consult with the director of the honors program, if possible, prior to going overseas. Students who study abroad for the entire junior year and want to write an honors thesis should plan to take the Research Seminar for Majors in the first quarter following completion of the study abroad program.In considering an applicant for such a project, the adviser and director of the honors program take into account general preparation in the field of the project and expect a GPA of at least 3.5 in the student's previous work in History and a 3.3 in overall University work. Students completing the thesis with a grade of 'B+' or higher are eligible for Departmental Honors in History. To enter the Honors program, apply at the Department of History office.   See the Forms tab for the appropriate application. For more information on the Honors program, see the Honors Handbook and our entry in the Stanford Bulletin . View the Honors Calendar© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe first step in becoming a History major is finding a Faculty Adviser.  The best way to find an adviser is simply to take a variety of History courses, drop in during faculty office hours (posted in the History Department main office), and introduce yourself as a prospective History major.  Faculty are happy to suggest coursework and to offer counsel. Next, complete the Declaration Form and have your adviser sign it.  Forms are also available in the History Office. Then, submit your Declaration Form to Priscilla Catbagan, Undergraduate Student Services Administrator, in the History Office (200-113). Finally, declare the History major on AXESS.  Only students who have submitted a signed History Major Declaration Form will be accepted by AXESS as History majors.  This restriction ensures that all History majors have advisors. A note on timing: Students usually declare in the freshman, sophomore, or early junior year.  History majors are required to be declared six quarters prior to graduation; students declaring later than the Fall quarter of their junior year need to submit a special petition (also available in the History Office), accompanied by a plan for completing the major.To minor in History, you must register with the department by the Autumn quarter of your senior year.  Visit Priscilla Tojino, Undergraduate Student Services Administrator, in the History Office and she will start a file for you. Next, you must declare the History minor on AXESS. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsBefore declaring the History major, students must take one lecture course. They must take a second lecture course within one year of declaring. Fulfilling this requirement are courses numbered HISTORY 1-199 (with the exception of Freshman (xxN) and Sophomore (xxQ) Introductory Seminars).Completion of the major requires planning. History majors should plan to meet with their faculty advisors twice yearly, once in the autumn and once in the winter or spring quarters. These meetings should take place within the first three weeks of the quarter, before the final study list deadline.History majors are required to complete a minimum of 63 units (i.e. a minimum of 13 courses) to include:For more information on these requirements, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe joint major program (JMP), authorized by the Academic Senate for a pilot period of six years, permits students to major in both Computer Science and one of ten Humanities majors. See the "Joint Major Program" section of the bulletin for a description of University requirements for the JMP. See also the Undergraduate Advising and Research JMP web site and its associated FAQs.Students completing the JMP receive a B.A.S. (Bachelor of Arts and Sciences).
	Because the JMP is new and experimental, changes to procedures may occur; students are advised to check the relevant section of the bulletin periodically.See the "Computer Science Joint Major Program" section of the bulletin for details on Computer Science requirements.
	Students majoring in the History and Computer Science joint major program fulfill all of the breadth, focus, and WIM requirements of the standard History major. Students in the JMP are excused from completing one elective course, reducing the required unit count of the History major from 63 to 59 units (i.e., from a minimum of 13 courses to 12 courses). All courses comprising the major must be taken for a letter grade.
	For details on the requirements of the History major, see the Bachelor's tab in the History section of the bulletin.One of the highlights of the JMP is an integrative capstone experience, which enables students to work with faculty mentors in the two departments to devise and complete original projects that bring together the different fields. Some students may choose to complete capstone projects under the auspices of HISTORY 209S Research Seminar for Majors which is the required Writing in the Major requirement for all History majors including those in the JMP. Others may choose to complete their capstones under the auspices of other courses in Computer Science or History, or in the context of senior honors projects in one or the other or both departments. In keeping with University policy, units obtained from a capstone course taken within a particular department can be applied to only that department’s requirements.To declare the joint major, students must first declare each major through Axess, and then submit the Declaration or Change of Undergraduate Major, Minor, Honors, or Degree Program. The Major-Minor and Multiple Major Course Approval Form is required for graduation for students with a joint major.Information about dropping a joint major program is still being developed. The bulletin will be updated when that information is available. Student may consult the Student Services Center with questions concerning dropping the joint major.Students completing a joint major graduate with a B.A.S. degree. The two majors are identified on one diploma separated by a hyphen. There will be a notation indicating that the student has completed a "Joint Major".  The two majors are identified on the transcript with a notation indicating that the student has completed a "Joint Major".© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Department of History offers the following tracks to the B.A. in History.Note: This information is updated every August for the new academic year. These tracks are not declared on Axess; they do not appear on the transcript or on the diploma.Faculty Coordinators: david comoThe Global Affairs and World History track is designed to offer an empirically rich curriculum for Stanford students interested in international affairs. The goal is to impart an understanding of today's world through a historical examination of its evolution, from the early modern to the contemporary era. This track appeals to students who are aiming for a career in the international arena, and who seek to inform themselves about the complexities of cultural diversity and spatial differentiation on the ground. Deploying both connective and comparative modes of analysis, majors who choose this track will acquire a robust understanding of the relevance of the past to current events.For more information on this track and to see a list of pre-approved courses, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.Faculty coordinator: priya satiaThe History, Philosophy, and the Arts (HPA) track is designed for the student who wishes to complement his or her work in History with study in literature and philosophy, particularly in a foreign language. For the purposes of this track, Arts are defined broadly, including fine art and art history, drama, films, memoirs and autobiography, poetry and novels, as well as canonical works in philosophy, political science, and history of political thought. It appeals to students who are interested in studying the humanities and its conceptual and linguistic worlds in their historical context, or who want to focus on both the literature and history of a specific geographical area while also learning the language of that area.For more information on this track and to see a list of pre-approved courses, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.faculty coordinator: jessica riskinThe History of Science and Medicine (HS&M) track is a collaborative program of the Department of History and the Program in the History and Philosophy of Science. The major is designed for students interested in both sciences and humanities, and in the interactions between the two. It is also especially useful for students contemplating medical school, since it allows them to study the history of medicine, biology, and allied sciences in conjunction with fulfilling the premed science requirements.For more information on this track and to see a list of pre-approved courses, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.faculty coordinator: jonathan gienappThe History and Law (HL) interdisciplinary track is for students who want to explore the intersections between historical and legal studies. The HL curriculum focuses on the role of legal institutions, policies, and structures in various societies. HL track majors enroll in at least four History department courses that focus on issues of law in civil societies and four courses that provide a geographic concentration. In addition, students enroll in four courses outside History that provide disciplinary or interdisciplinary perspectives on the role of law in shaping societies and a Research Seminar for Majors.For more information on this track and to see a list of pre-approved courses, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.faculty coordinator: Katherine jolluckThe Public History/Public Service (PH/PS) interdisciplinary history track is designed for students who wish to include in their course of studies the application of historical study in (1) public settings such as museums and heritage sites, national and state parks, public agencies, and private foundations, and (2) public service settings in non-profit organizations, public agencies, and educational institutions.For more information on this track and to see a list of pre-approved courses, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe General History track emphasizes breadth of study among historical areas and periods as well as concentration in one selected field.In addition to completing the requirements for all History majors, the student in the General History track is required to satisfy breadth and concentration requirements.Breadth Requirements: to ensure chronological and geographical breadth, at least two courses must be completed in a premodern chronological period and in each of three geographical fields:Courses for 2016-17 can be found in the Stanford Bulletin. Concentration: to develop some measure of expertise, students must complete four courses in a single area (including one undergraduate colloquium or research seminar). The proposed concentration must be approved by the major adviser; a proposal for a thematic concentration must be approved by both the adviser and the department's director of undergraduate studies. Areas of concentration are:Required course: HISTORY 102 History of the International System is a required course for students who select the International History concentration. This course is offered in Spring Quarter.For more information on these tracks and to see lists of pre-approved courses, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHow does an honors thesis differ from a long paper, or from a graduate thesis? This is a key question to discuss with your faculty advisers: establishing a scope for the thesis is your first challenge. In general, however, a thesis attempts, through analysis of primary sources, to address a new question or to reinterpret a moment in history, an undertaking spurred by a willingness to question accepted versions of a story and to expand on the understanding of the past. Fidelity to primary sources in constructing an argument and a solid grasp of the existing work on the topic are crucial to the project, as is patience with the writing and revision process. One of the rewards of original research, and a question to keep you engaged as you work, is the significance of the ideas you present.Students accepted for the Honors program, in additional to fulfilling the general requirements stated above, begin work as early as Spring Quarter of the junior year and complete the essay by mid-May of the senior year. In addition to HISTORY 299H Junior Honors Colloquium, students must enroll in 11-15 units of Senior Research in the senior year, to be distributed as best fits their specific project.  For students in the Honors program, Senior Research units HISTORY 299A Senior Research I, HISTORY 299B, Senior Research II, and HISTORY 299C Senior Research III are taken in addition to the 13 required courses in History.Outstanding honors essays may be considered for the University's Robert M. Golden Medals, as well as for departmental James Birdsall Weter prizes.To enter this program, the student must be accepted by a member of the department who agrees to advise the research and writing of the essay, and must complete the Junior Honors Colloquium (299H) offered in Winter Quarter. An exception to the latter requirement may be made for those studying overseas Winter Quarter of the junior year, but such students should consult with the director of the honors program, if possible, prior to going overseas. Students who study abroad for the entire junior year and want to write an honors thesis should plan to take the Research Seminar for Majors in the first quarter following completion of the study abroad program.In considering an applicant for such a project, the adviser and director of the honors program take into account general preparation in the field of the project and expect a GPA of at least 3.5 in the student's previous work in History and a 3.3 in overall University work. Students completing the thesis with a grade of 'B+' or higher are eligible for Departmental Honors in History. To enter the Honors program, apply at the Department of History office.   See the Forms tab for the appropriate application. For more information on the Honors program, see the Honors Handbook and our entry in the Stanford Bulletin . View the Honors Calendar© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents must declare the minor in History no later than Autumn Quarter of the senior year via Axess. Minor declarations are approved by the Department of History and confirmation is sent via email to the student.Candidates for the minor in History must complete six courses, at least three of which must have a field or thematic focus. Students completing the minor may choose to concentrate in such fields as African, American, Asian, British, European (medieval, early modern, or modern), Russian and East European history, comparative empires and cultures, or such thematic topics as the history of gender, the family, religion, technology, or revolution. Students may also petition to have a concentration of their own design count toward the minor.All six courses must be of at least 3 units each and must be taken for a letter grade. The student must maintain a grade point average (GPA) in History courses of 2.0 (C) or higher. Two of the six courses must be small-group in format (Stanford Introductory Seminars, Sources and Methods Seminars, departmental colloquia, and research seminars). History courses taken at Stanford overseas campuses may count toward the minor, but at least three of the six courses must be taken from Stanford History faculty.Advanced Placement credits do not fulfill any minor requirements.To minor in History, you must register with the department by the Autumn quarter of your senior year.  Visit Priscilla Catbagan, Undergraduate Student Services Administrator, in the History Office and she will start a file for you. Next, you must declare the History minor on AXESS.For more information on these requirements, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.Download a History Minor Progress Evaluation Worksheet © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents must declare the minor in History no later than Autumn Quarter of the senior year via Axess. Minor declarations are approved by the Department of History and confirmation is sent via email to the student.Candidates for the minor in History must complete six courses, at least three of which must have a field or thematic focus. Students completing the minor may choose to concentrate in such fields as African, American, Asian, British, European (medieval, early modern, or modern), Russian and East European history, comparative empires and cultures, or such thematic topics as the history of gender, the family, religion, technology, or revolution. Students may also petition to have a concentration of their own design count toward the minor.All six courses must be of at least 3 units each and must be taken for a letter grade. The student must maintain a grade point average (GPA) in History courses of 2.0 (C) or higher. Two of the six courses must be small-group in format (Stanford Introductory Seminars, Sources and Methods Seminars, departmental colloquia, and research seminars). History courses taken at Stanford overseas campuses may count toward the minor, but at least three of the six courses must be taken from Stanford History faculty.Advanced Placement credits do not fulfill any minor requirements.To minor in History, you must register with the department by the Autumn quarter of your senior year.  Visit Priscilla Catbagan, Undergraduate Student Services Administrator, in the History Office and she will start a file for you. Next, you must declare the History minor on AXESS.For more information on these requirements, see our entry in the Stanford Bulletin.Download a History Minor Progress Evaluation Worksheet © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsPeer advisors are History undergraduates who volunteer to help their fellow students with requirements of the department as well as other university resources.Madeleine Chang is a senior history major (History, Philosophy, and Arts track) from San Francisco. On campus, she leads the American Middle Eastern Network for Dialogue at Stanford (AMENDS) and is a founding member of the Jewish Social Justice Collective. Come chat with her about tech's impact on society, local news, or Korean restaurant recommendations! Jessie Dalman is a senior majoring in History with a concentration in Conflict. Her primary interests are in political theory, national security, and cross-cultural communication. Jessie enjoys learning cool things, spending time with friends, and meeting new people (email me and say hello!).Moses Hetfield is a senior from Cabin John, MD.  Outside of class, Moses has been involved in several community service groups on campus and serves as the co-director of Stanford's Challah for Hunger chapter.  In addition to bread, Moses loves singing and working with children.  He works as a pre-K teacher during the school year and a camp counselor during the summer, and plans to teach history at a middle or high school after graduating from Stanford.Meredith is a senior from Los Altos, CA focusing on European history, with a minor in Theater & Performance Studies. She spends most of her free time working in the theater, either as an actor or a stage manager. She hopes to combine her historical work with her creative interests after Stanford, in whatever form that takes. Naomi is a senior from Providence, Rhode Island. She is majoring in U.S. History and minoring in Art History. On campus, she has worked at the Cantor Arts Center and at CESTA, and is currently editor-in-chief of the History department's undergraduate journal, Herodotus. She loves drawing and painting, hiking, reading detective novels, and cats.Jack is a  junior from Denver, Colorado. His emphasis is in East Asian history, and is particularly interested in the cross-section between history and geography. He is also a Film Studies Major, and often uses film as a tool for exploring and better understanding history.Hailing from the City of Brotherly Love, and wishing she was in Paris eating baguettes, Lena is a junior majoring in History and French. She lives for 18th-century France, and thus her social interactions usually consist of misquoting Rousseau. When she's not geeking out about enlightenment and revolution, Lena can be found conducting digital humanities research, performing at the theater, or petting a dog (ask about her dreams for a corgi army).