The Ph.D. program in Chinese is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Chinese literature, philosophy, or linguistics.Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Chinese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Ph.D. students will complete the M.A. (as described in the M.A. requirements section on this website) on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy. The majority of required course work for Ph.D. students demands the ability to read primary and secondary materials in Chinese. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in Chinese literature or linguistics elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. All courses must be taken for a letter grade.For a Ph.D. in Chinese, a candidate must fulfill the following requirements:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan, offers students the ability to study East Asia with a special focus on Chinese culture and language. The Bachelor of Arts The Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan, replaced the department's Bachelor of Arts in Chinese. Students currently pursuing the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese may choose to continue his or her plan of study, or opt to complete the Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan requirement instead. Note: Once students drop the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese on Axess, they cannot re-enroll/declare under the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese again. Consult Prof. Yiqun Zhou, EALC’s Director of Undergraduate Studies, or Ai Tran, EALC’s student services officer, for more clarification.The following requirements are are in addition to the University’s basic requirements for the bachelor’s degree. Letter grades are mandatory for required courses.Courses taken to complete the major requirements as well as their prerequisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.For questions or inquiries regarding the major, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan, offers students the ability to study East Asia with a special focus on Japanese culture and language. The Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan, replaced the department's Bachelor of Arts in Japanese. Students currently pursuing the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese may choose to continue his or her plan of study, or opt to complete the Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan requirement instead. Note: Once students drop the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese on Axess, he or she cannot re-enroll/declare under the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese again. Consult Prof. Yiqun Zhou, Director of Undergraduate Studies, or Ai Tran, EALC’s student services officer, for more clarification.The following requirements are are in addition to the University’s basic requirements for the bachelor’s degree. Letter grades are mandatory for required courses.Courses taken to complete the major requirements as well as their prerequisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.For questions or inquiries regarding the major, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Korea Subplan, offers students the ability to study East Asia with a special focus on Korean culture and language. The following requirements are in addtion to the University's basic requiremenets for the bachelor's degree. Students must take all courses for a letter grade, and the courses as well as their prerequisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.For questions or inquiries regarding the major, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints"When I first saw that [JAPAN 288], “The Japanese Tea Ceremony: The History, Aesthetics and Politics Behind a National Pastime,” was a course offered during Stanford’s spring quarter I was floored. I couldn’t believe that such a nuanced interest of mine was woven into the fabric of Stanford’s academic net. Needless to say, I was quick to sign up, early to the first day and sleepless the nights before class. ... What started out as an intellectual interest has become a philosophical meditation on how to be in the world, all of which is the result of this exceptional class. Learning from experiences such as this one, in which practical application or future security become less of a central focus, are truly precious. They move the mindset of education away from financial success and push instead for a greater depth of character and understanding of self. When the time next comes to enroll in classes I beg you all to discover the hidden wonders that Stanford and learning have to offer you. To put aside your inclination towards the comfort of pragmatism and experiment instead with your curious and perhaps less acknowledged side."-- Hannah Broderick, Stanford UndergraduateMost courses in the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures are taught by tenure-line faculty, and are small in size, so that students receive individual attention.The department’s courses have the subject codes CHINGEN, CHINLIT, JAPANGEN, JAPANLIT, KORGEN, and KORLIT. General courses are open to all undergraduates and graduate students, are taught in English, and do not require knowledge of an East Asian language.CHINESE CONTENT COURSES 15-16JAPANESE CONTENT COURSES 15-16KOREAN CONTENT COURSES 15-16Please check back in August for an updated list of our course offerings for AY 2016-17. For more information about our courses, please contact our Student Services Officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints“Why am I glad to be a part of the EALC? That’s easy enough. The freedom (and resources) to pursue my own academic interests, professors equally attentive to the pursuit of knowledge and the practical exigencies of professional development, a supportive community of graduate students who continue to teach me new things on a daily basis, and opportunities to engage with contemporary authors and scholars hailing from all over the globe. If you have never thought that, say, Japanese linked verse from the 15th century or the popular literature of the early Showa Period could be exciting, I would ask you first to visit our doors.”-- Kevin Singleton, Japanese PhD CandidateThe Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures offers programs for students who wish to engage with the cultures of China, Japan, and Korea as articulated in language, linguistics, literature, film, cultural studies, and visual arts. Students emerge with a sophisticated understanding of culture as a dynamic process embodied in language and other representational media, especially the verbal and visual forms that are central to humanistic study.Our department currently offer the following programs:All students contemplating application for admission to graduate study must have a creditable undergraduate record. The applicant need not have majored in Chinese or Japanese as an undergraduate, but must have had the equivalent of least three years of training in the language in which he or she intends to specialize, and must also demonstrate a command of English adequate for the pursuit of graduate study. Applicants should not wish merely to acquire or improve language skills, but to pursue study in one of the following fields: Chinese History (pre-modern), Chinese linguistics, Chinese literature, Chinese Philosophy, Japanese cultural history, Japanese literature and Japanese linguistics.For more information, please explore other pages to learn more about our graduate programs. Please contact our Student Services Officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Application Deadline for the 2017-18 has passed. The 2018-19 application will be available in early September 2017; please check back in September for more application details. The deadline submit your application for 2018-19 will be on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, 11:59 pm PST.  Graduate study is offered in more than 60 departments and programs. Since you may submit only one application per academic year, it is essential that you carefully review the available programs. We recommend students review all available programs, before applying. During your application process you will be able to designate whether you would potentially like your application to be referred to a different department, although this does no guarantee that the other department will offer you candidacy.To be eligible for admission to graduate programs at Stanford, applicants must meet one of the following conditions:Adequate command of spoken and written English is required for admission. Evidence of adequate English proficiency must be submitted before enrollment is approved by Graduate Admissions.TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) scores are required of all applicants whose first language is not English.International students enrolled at Stanford must be able to read English with ease, understand rapid idiomatic English as used in lectures and group discussions, and express thoughts quickly and clearly in spoken and written English. Admission is offered only to students who are fully prepared in English or who have advanced intermediate proficiency in English that could be raised to the required level by enrollment in a summer intensive English program.Stanford University offers a six-week Intensive English and Academic Orientation Program in the summer for students who plan to begin graduate study in the autumn quarter.The English for Foreign Students Office administers an English placement test at the beginning of each quarter. This test may be a required condition of admission for students whose native language is not English.Standard protocol for the test involve: Please check the appropriate pages below to see admissions requirements:Masters of Arts RequirementsPh.D. Requirements The Knight-Henessy Scholars program awards full funding to pursue a graduate education at Stanford to students from all disciplines, with additional opportunities for leadership training and collaboration across fields. Apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars by September 27, 2017, and to the degree program of your choice by November 15, 2017.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOnce admitted to the M.A. program, M.A. candidates must accept or decline our offer before the start of the Autumn quarter that he or she is admitted to. 2016-17 Admitted M.A. students should visit the Grad Admissions: Admitted Students webpage and complete all requirements necessary. Students who accept an offer of admission will be notiﬁed later by e-mail from Graduate Admissions, Office of the University Registrar, about any additional requirements to be fulﬁlled. The requirements will also appear in the student’s Axess account To Do list. Students who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. registered permanent residents need to fill out and submit either the I-20 Request for Student F-1 Visa or the DS-2019 Request for J-1 Exchange Visitors, and possibly Transfer in (SEVIS Record) to Stanford University.If there are any follw-up questions, students should direct questions either to Grad Admissions (gradadmissions@stanford.edu), or East Asian Languages & Culture's Student Services Officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu). © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsSimilar to the East Asian Studies Workshop, the East Asian Linguistics Workshop is sponsored by the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures. The workshop's purpose is to promote intra- and inter-departmental communication among faculty, graduate students, and visiting scholars who share research and teaching interest in East Asia in the Stanford Community. Primarily, the East Asian Linguistics workshop focuses on Asian Linguistics. These workshops take place once a month; upcoming workshops can be found on our Events website, beginning with "East Asian Linguistics Workshop: ..." If you are interested in attending our workshops, please contact our 2016-2017 graduate student coordinator, Paul Ganir (pganir@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsSponsored by the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures, the East Asian Studies Workshop aims at promoting intra- and inter-departmental communication among faculty, graduate students, and visiting scholars who share research and teaching interests in East Asia in the Stanford community.  In particular, it is intended to foster stronger ties between EALC faculty and graduate students across the China-Japan-Korea divide as well as greater cross-disciplinary exchange among East Asian Studies scholars across the humanities and social science disciplines, including literature, linguistics, history, art history, religion, philosophy, anthropology, sociology, and political science.  It is also intended to enhance graduate student professionalization.  The workshop meets once a month during the academic year and engage in a variety of activities determined by its participants. Our workshops can be found on our Events webpage, beginning with "East Asian Studies Workshop: ..." If you might not be able to attend this session but have suggestions you would like to make for future workshop activities, please feel free to email your ideas to our 2015-16 graduate student coordinators, Likun Yang and Timothy Young (stanfordeasw@gmail.com). For those interested, you may also request to join our mailing list so that you are aware of any upcoming events: https://mailman.stanford.edu/mailman/listinfo/eas-workshop © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints“Why am I glad to be a part of the EALC? That’s easy enough. The freedom (and resources) to pursue my own academic interests, professors equally attentive to the pursuit of knowledge and the practical exigencies of professional development, a supportive community of graduate students who continue to teach me new things on a daily basis, and opportunities to engage with contemporary authors and scholars hailing from all over the globe. If you have never thought that, say, Japanese linked verse from the 15th century or the popular literature of the early Showa Period could be exciting, I would ask you first to visit our doors.”-- Kevin Singleton, Japanese PhD CandidateThe Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures offers programs for students who wish to engage with the cultures of China, Japan, and Korea as articulated in language, linguistics, literature, film, cultural studies, and visual arts. Students emerge with a sophisticated understanding of culture as a dynamic process embodied in language and other representational media, especially the verbal and visual forms that are central to humanistic study.Our department currently offer the following programs:All students contemplating application for admission to graduate study must have a creditable undergraduate record. The applicant need not have majored in Chinese or Japanese as an undergraduate, but must have had the equivalent of least three years of training in the language in which he or she intends to specialize, and must also demonstrate a command of English adequate for the pursuit of graduate study. Applicants should not wish merely to acquire or improve language skills, but to pursue study in one of the following fields: Chinese History (pre-modern), Chinese linguistics, Chinese literature, Chinese Philosophy, Japanese cultural history, Japanese literature and Japanese linguistics.For more information, please explore other pages to learn more about our graduate programs. Please contact our Student Services Officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsGeneral Notes:The University's basic requirements for the master's degree, including a 45-unit minimum requirement, are given in the "Graduate Degrees" section of the University Bulletin.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Application Deadline for 2016-17 admissions has passed. Please check back in September for more application details for 2017-18. The deadline submit your application for 2017-18 will be on Tuesday, December 6, 2016, 5:00 pm PST.  Our department offers a Master of Arts degree in Chinese, and Japanese. All students contemplating application for admission to graduate study must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited university. The applicant need not have majored in Chinese or Japanese as an undergraduate, but must have had the equivalent of at least three years of training in the language in which he or she intends to specialize, and must also demonstrate a command of English adequate for the pursuit of graduate study. Applicants should not wish merely to acquire or improve language skills, but to pursue study in one of the following fields: Chinese history (pre-modern), Chinese linguistics, Chinese literature, Chinese philosophy, Japanese cultural history, Japanese literature, and Japanese linguistics.For more information regarding the application process and eligibility, please visit Stanford's Grad Admissions webpage. Applications must apply online through our University website: Stanford Graduate Admissions: Starting Your Application.   © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsWith department approval, current Stanford undergraduates may apply to combine programs for the B.A. and M.A. degrees in Chinese or Japanese. Prospective applicants must consult with the graduate adviser. Please note the University's general Coterminal Requirements:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe M.A. program in Chinese is designed for students with strong academic records and an interest in pursuing postgraduate research in Chinese literature, philosophy, or linguistics, but who have not yet acquired the language skills or disciplinary foundation necessary to enter a Ph.D. program. (Note: Students who wish to pursue advanced language training in preparation for post-graduate research in other fields of Chinese studies are referred to the interdisciplinary M.A. program in the Center for East Asian Studies.)The candidate must finish third-year Chinese, and one course in advanced classical Chinese with a letter grade of 'B' or higher. Placement tests in modern and in classical Chinese will be given for incoming students during orientation week, Autumn Quarter. Those who fail to place into advanced level classical must take beginning classical Chinese. Qualified students may, upon consultation with the graduate adviser, be permitted to certify that they have attained the equivalent level of proficiency by passing examinations.  Note: As a general rule of thumb, students should check the Stanford Bulletin Archives to make sure that he or she completes requirements for the year that they were martriculated. Click here for archived Stanford University Bulletins.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe M.A. program in Chinese, Archaeology Subplan, is designed for students with an interest in pursuing postgraduate research in Chinese archaeology, but who have not yet acquired the language skills or disciplinary foundation necessary to enter a Ph.D. program. The subplan is declared on Axess. Subplans are printed on the transcript and the diploma and are elected via the Declaration of Change to a Field of Study form.Master of Arts in Chinese, Archaeology Subplan Degree Requirements:  Note: As a general rule of thumb, students should check the Stanford Bulletin Archives to make sure that he or she completes requirements for the year that they were martriculated. Click here for archived Stanford University Bulletins. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe M.A. program in Japanese is designed for students with strong academic records and an interest in pursuing postgraduate research in Japanese literature, cultural history, or linguistics, but who have not yet acquired the language skills or disciplinary foundation necessary to enter a Ph.D. program. Note: Students who wish to pursue advanced language training in preparation for postgraduate research in other fields of Japanese studies are referred to the interdisciplinary M.A. program in the Center for East Asian Studies.Master of Arts in Japanese, Degree Requirements:  Note: As a general rule of thumb, students should check the Stanford Bulletin Archives to make sure that he or she completes requirements for the year that they were martriculated. Click here for archived Stanford University Bulletins.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOur department offers doctoral programs in Chinese and Japanese:Candidates for the degree are expected to acquire a thorough familiarity with Chinese or Japanese literature and linguistics, an adequate command of relevant languages, and a comprehensive knowledge of East Asian history, social institutions, and thought. The University's basic requirements for the Ph.D. program are given in the "Graduate Degrees" section of the Stanford Bulletin. The Ph.D. program in Chinese is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Chinese literature, philosophy, or linguistics. Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Chinese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Ph.D. students will complete the M.A. as described above on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy (see Requirements for the Ph.D. in Chinese here). The majority of required course work for Ph.D. students demands the ability to read primary and secondary materials in Chinese. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in Chinese literature or linguistics elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. All courses must be taken for a letter grade. The Ph.D. program in Chinese Archaeology is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Chinese archaeology. Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Chinese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Students on the Ph.D. track will complete the degree requirements for the Master of Arts in Chinese, Archaeology Subplan, on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy (For Chinese Archaeology M.A. requirements, click here). Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in archaeology or anthropology elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. track. All courses must be taken for a letter grade. Subplans are printed on the transcript and diploma and are elected via the Declaration or Change to a Field of Study form. The Ph.D. program in Japanese is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Japanese literature, cultural history, or linguistics. Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Japanese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Ph.D. students will complete M.A. requirements on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy (see department guidelines for admission to candidacy above). The majority of required course work for Ph.D. students demands the ability to read primary and secondary materials in Japanese. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in Japanese literature or linguistics elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. All courses must be taken for a letter grade. The Ph.D. program in Japanese, Linguistics Track, is designed for students who wish to specialize in Japanese linguistics. Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Japanese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Ph.D. students will complete the Master of Arts in Japanese requirements on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy (see department requirements for the Master of Arts in Japanese). Candidates are also expected to take relevant courses in linguistics, and other supporting fields. These fields are to be determined with the consultation of the student’s primary adviser, may include applied linguistics, Chinese linguistics, psychology, education anthropology, sociology, etc. Like the Japanese Ph.D. program, Ph.D. candidates on the Japanese Linguistics Track must be able to read primary and secondary materials in Japanese. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already have already completed an M.A. in Japanese literature or linguistics elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. All courses must be taken for a letter grade. A student taking a Ph.D. minor in Chinese or Japanese must complete at least 30 units of work within the department at the 200 and 300 level, chosen in consultation with a department adviser. The student must take either CHINLIT 201 Proseminar: Bibliographic and Research Methods in Chinese Studies or JAPANLIT 201 Proseminar: Introduction to Graduate Study in Japanese unless the department is satisfied that work done elsewhere has provided similar training. The student must also pass a written examination in the Chinese or Japanese language.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Application Deadline for 2016-17 admissions has passed. Please check back in September for more application details for 2017-18. The deadline submit your application for 2017-18 will be on Tuesday, December 6, 2016, 5:00 pm PST.  Our department offers Doctoral Programs in Chinese, and Japanese. All students contemplating application for admission to graduate study must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited university. Candidates for the degree are expected to acquire a thorough familiarity with Chinese or Japanese literature and linguistics, an adequate command of relevant languages, and a comprehensive knowledge of East Asian history, social institutions, and thought. The applicant need not have majored in Chinese or Japanese as an undergraduate, but must have had the equivalent of at least three years of training in the language in which he or she intends to specialize, and must also demonstrate a command of English adequate for the pursuit of graduate study. Applicants should not wish merely to acquire or improve language skills, but to pursue study in one of the following fields:Students are evaluated by the graduate faculty during their second year at Stanford. The evaluation is based on a research paper of 25-30 pages documented and with a bibliography, written for an EALC major seminar above the 200 level. Students are also expected to have a GPA of at least 'A-' and demonstrate satisfactory work as a teaching assistant. If the faculty have serious doubts about a student's ability to work for the Ph.D., they convey this to the student. During the subsequent Spring Quarter, the faculty formally decide by vote whether a student should be admitted to candidacy for the Ph.D. or offered an extension. In cases of extension of pre-candidacy, a clear plan is developed for the student, and a reassessment completed within two academic quarters.If a student goes to the Inter-University Program for Chinese Language Studies (IUP) at Tsinghua University or the Inter-University Center (IUC) for Japanese Language Studies in Yokohama during the first two years of study, the department may consider an extension for admission to candidacy. The timing of the evaluation of a student admitted with an M.A. in East Asian Studies is decided on an individual basis.Candidacy is a milestone different from the comprehensive exams, which are regularly held in the third year. Mastery of the field exams is not to be equated with the potential for doing research. Admission to candidacy indicates that the department faculty consider the student qualified to pursue a program of study leading to the Ph.D.For more information regarding the application process and eligibility, please visit Stanford's Grad Admissions webpage. Applicants must apply online through our University website: Stanford Graduate Admissions: Starting Your Application.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsYou may be seeing this page because you used the Back button while browsing a secure web site or application. Alternatively, you may have mistakenly bookmarked the web login form instead of the actual web site you wanted to bookmark or used a link created by somebody else who made the same mistake.Left unchecked, this can cause errors on some browsers or result in you returning to the web site you tried to leave, so this page is presented instead.Stanford UniversityYou may be seeing this page because you used the Back button while browsing a secure web site or application. Alternatively, you may have mistakenly bookmarked the web login form instead of the actual web site you wanted to bookmark or used a link created by somebody else who made the same mistake.Left unchecked, this can cause errors on some browsers or result in you returning to the web site you tried to leave, so this page is presented instead.Stanford UniversityYou may be seeing this page because you used the Back button while browsing a secure web site or application. Alternatively, you may have mistakenly bookmarked the web login form instead of the actual web site you wanted to bookmark or used a link created by somebody else who made the same mistake.Left unchecked, this can cause errors on some browsers or result in you returning to the web site you tried to leave, so this page is presented instead.Stanford UniversityThe Department offers a Ph.D. Minor in East Asian Languages and Cultures© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Ph.D. program in Chinese is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Chinese literature, philosophy, or linguistics.The Ph.D. program in Chinese Archaeology is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Chinese archaeology.Ph.D. in Japanese literature.Focus in Japanese linguistics.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOops! We can't find that page!We have a new site and things have moved around a bit. Here are some good places to start.HomepageSearch this site... © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Ph.D. program in Japanese is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Japanese literature, cultural history, or linguistics.Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Japanese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Ph.D. students will complete M.A. requirements on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy (see department guidelines for admission to candidacy above). The majority of required course work for Ph.D. students demands the ability to read primary and secondary materials in Japanese. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in Japanese literature or linguistics elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. All courses must be taken for a letter grade.A candidate specializing in Japanese linguistics must fulfill the following requirements:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Ph.D. program in Japanese is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Japanese literature, cultural history, or linguistics.Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Japanese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Ph.D. students will complete M.A. requirements on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy (see department guidelines for admission to candidacy above). The majority of required course work for Ph.D. students demands the ability to read primary and secondary materials in Japanese. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in Japanese literature or linguistics elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. All courses must be taken for a letter grade.For the Ph.D. in Japanese literature, the candidate must fulfill the following requirements:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Ph.D. program in Chinese is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Chinese literature, philosophy, or linguistics.Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Chinese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Ph.D. students will complete the M.A. (as described in the M.A. requirements section on this website) on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy. The majority of required course work for Ph.D. students demands the ability to read primary and secondary materials in Chinese. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in Chinese literature or linguistics elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. All courses must be taken for a letter grade.For a Ph.D. in Chinese, a candidate must fulfill the following requirements:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Ph.D. program in Chinese Archaeology is designed to prepare students for a doctoral degree in Chinese archaeology.Applicants must have a minimum of three years of Chinese language study at Stanford or the equivalent to be considered for admission. Students on the Ph.D. track will complete the M.A. (as described in the M.A requirements section on this website) on the way to advancing to Ph.D. candidacy. Advanced standing may be considered for students entering the Ph.D. program who have already completed an M.A. in archaeology or anthropology elsewhere only in cases when the level of prior course work and research is deemed equivalent to departmental requirements for the Ph.D. track. All courses must be taken for a letter grade. Subplans are printed on the transcript and diploma and are elected via the "Declaration or Change to a Field of Study" form. For a Ph.D. in Chinese Archaeology, a candidate must fulfill the following requirements:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints“I graduated from Stanford with a degree in Japanese ... I left to teach high school in Japan for a couple of years. It was a great experience: I solidified my language skills, gained some perspective on employment and life in Japan, and made lifelong friends. The linguistic and cultural understanding I gained at Stanford (and during my time in Japan) continues to enrich my life on a daily basis.”-- Mike Massey '[year?]The Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures Bachelor of Arts degrees in:Required courses and pre-requisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.Students majoring in Chinese, Japanese, or East Asian Studies with an overall GPA of 3.5 or higher may apply for the honors program honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. If approved, research begins the Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest. In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in independent study with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15 of the senior year. For more information, please review the Honors Program requirements.The minor in Asian Languages (Chinese, Japanese or East Asian Studies) is also available. These have been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain substantial introduction to Chinese (Mandarin) or Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsMajors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following:If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with their faculty adviser. In Winter Quarter, students enroll in five units of independent study (CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis)) with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses (instead of writing a capstone essay). Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following:If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis). In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in five units of independent study JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses. Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with a grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 or better in all courses related to East Asia may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include:If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in 2-5 units of independent study. In Winter Quarter, the student enrolls in five units of independent study with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in CHINGEN 198 (Senior Colloquium in Chinese Studies), JAPANGEN 198 (Senior Colloquium in Japanese Studies), or KORGEN 198 (Senior Colloquium in Korean Studies) in the senior year to polish and present their theses (instead of writing a capstone essay). Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis. One advanced level colloquium or seminar dealing with China, Japan, or Korea is required as well.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following: If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with their faculty adviser. In Winter Quarter, students enroll in five units of independent study (CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis)) with the thesis supervisor again while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses (instead of writing a capstone essay). Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following: If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis). In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in five units of independent study JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses. Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following: If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in KOREA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis). In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in five units of independent study KOREA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with the thesis supervisor again while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses. Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsMajors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following:If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with their faculty adviser. In Winter Quarter, students enroll in five units of independent study (CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis)) with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses (instead of writing a capstone essay). Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following:If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis). In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in five units of independent study JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses. Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with a grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 or better in all courses related to East Asia may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include:If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in 2-5 units of independent study. In Winter Quarter, the student enrolls in five units of independent study with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in CHINGEN 198 (Senior Colloquium in Chinese Studies), JAPANGEN 198 (Senior Colloquium in Japanese Studies), or KORGEN 198 (Senior Colloquium in Korean Studies) in the senior year to polish and present their theses (instead of writing a capstone essay). Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis. One advanced level colloquium or seminar dealing with China, Japan, or Korea is required as well.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following: If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with their faculty adviser. In Winter Quarter, students enroll in five units of independent study (CHINA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis)) with the thesis supervisor again while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses (instead of writing a capstone essay). Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following: If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis). In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in five units of independent study JAPAN 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses. Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis.Majors with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 may apply for the honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. The proposal must include the following: If the proposal is approved, research begins in Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest, when the student enrolls in KOREA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis). In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in five units of independent study KOREA 198H: Senior Research (Honors Thesis) with the thesis supervisor again while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15th of the senior year. Students enroll in EALC 198: Senior Colloquium in the senior year to polish and present their theses. Eight to eleven units of credit are granted for honors course work and the finished thesis. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHaving completed their undergraduate level education at Stanford University, our undergrads are equipped with the necessary skills to tackle various interests: some students choose to continue academia and pursue a Master of Arts or doctoral program at other universities, while others prefer to travel and work abroad in East Asia. Below are some anecdotes from students whom we have heard from after graduation. If you are an alumnus or alumna who majored our minored in one of our undergraduate programs, we would love to hear from you! Please email our Student Services Officer (aitran@stanford.edu) to update us.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAs of Academic year 2016-17, we will no longer offer the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese. Students interested in majoring in Chinese studies may instead declare in the Bachelor of of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan. Students who declared his or her major before September 1, 2016, are still "Chinese majors," completing the Requirements for the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese. Students declaring after September 1, 2016 may declare in the Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan; the requirements for the "China Subplan" can be found here.For questions or inquiries regarding the major, please contact the student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsMajors in East Asian Studies begin or continue the mastery of Chinese, Japanese, or Korean. Within the humanities or social sciences, they may focus on a particular sub-region. For example: Japan; South China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan; or western China and Central Asia; or a substantive issue involving the region as a whole, such as environmental protection, public health, rural development, historiography, cultural expression, or religious beliefs. The major seeks to reduce the complexity of a region to intellectually manageable proportions and illuminate the interrelationships among the various facets of a society.Potential majors must submit a Student Proposal for a Major in East Asian Studies form not later than the end of the first quarter of the junior year. Majors must complete at least 75 units of coursework on China, Japan, and/or Korea in addition to a 1 unit Senior Colloquium. Courses to be credited toward major requirements must be completed with a grade of ‘C’ or better. Course requirements are as follows:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan, offers students the ability to study East Asia with a special focus on Chinese culture and language. The Bachelor of Arts The Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan, replaced the department's Bachelor of Arts in Chinese. Students currently pursuing the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese may choose to continue his or her plan of study, or opt to complete the Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan requirement instead. Note: Once students drop the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese on Axess, they cannot re-enroll/declare under the Bachelor of Arts in Chinese again. Consult Prof. Yiqun Zhou, EALC’s Director of Undergraduate Studies, or Ai Tran, EALC’s student services officer, for more clarification.The following requirements are are in addition to the University’s basic requirements for the bachelor’s degree. Letter grades are mandatory for required courses.Courses taken to complete the major requirements as well as their prerequisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.For questions or inquiries regarding the major, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan, offers students the ability to study East Asia with a special focus on Japanese culture and language. The Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan, replaced the department's Bachelor of Arts in Japanese. Students currently pursuing the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese may choose to continue his or her plan of study, or opt to complete the Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan requirement instead. Note: Once students drop the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese on Axess, he or she cannot re-enroll/declare under the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese again. Consult Prof. Yiqun Zhou, Director of Undergraduate Studies, or Ai Tran, EALC’s student services officer, for more clarification.The following requirements are are in addition to the University’s basic requirements for the bachelor’s degree. Letter grades are mandatory for required courses.Courses taken to complete the major requirements as well as their prerequisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.For questions or inquiries regarding the major, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, Korea Subplan, offers students the ability to study East Asia with a special focus on Korean culture and language. The following requirements are in addtion to the University's basic requiremenets for the bachelor's degree. Students must take all courses for a letter grade, and the courses as well as their prerequisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.For questions or inquiries regarding the major, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu).© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAs of Academic year 2016-17, we will no longer offer the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese. Students interested in majoring in Japanese studies may instead declare in the Bachelor of of Arts in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan. Students who declared his or her major before September 1, 2016, are still "Japanese majors," completing the Requirements for the Bachelor of Arts in Japanese (see below). Students declaring after September 1, 2016 may declare in the Bachelor of Arts in East Asian Studies, China Subplan; the requirements for the "Japan Subplan" can be found here.Please Note: Students who complete third-year Japanese at KCJS satisfy the language requirement but are required to take a placement test if they wish to enroll in JAPANLNG 211, 212, 213 (Fourth-Year Japanese)© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe goal of the minor in East Asian Studies is to provide the student with a broad background in East Asian culture as a whole, while allowing the student to focus on a geographical or temporal aspect of East Asia. The minor may be designed from the following, for a total of six courses and a minimum of 20 units. All courses should be taken for a letter grade.Applications for the minor should be submitted online through Axess and are due no later than the second quarter of the junior year. East Asian Studies List of Area CoursesHumanitiesHistorySocial Sciences © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures offers minor degrees in the following:The undergraduate minors in Chinese and Japanese have been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to Chinese or Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia. The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements: One introductory core course, below. Three other departmental courses in the relevant field approved by the adviser, and language requirement as listed below.The goal of the minor in East Asian Studies is to provide the student with a broad background in East Asian culture as a whole, while allowing the student to focus on a geographical or temporal aspect of East Asia. The minor may be designed from the following, for a total of six courses and a minimum of 20 units. All courses should be taken for a letter grade.The Division of Literatures, Cultures, and Languages offers a "Minor in Translation Studies" which may be of interest to students in East Asian Languages and Cultures. The DLCL, in cooperation with EALC and the English Department, teaches undergraduates to develop and apply their foreign language knowledge to the production and analysis of translations. The minor is designed to give students majoring in a variety of fields the tools to consider the practical and theoretical issues brought up by translation as an aesthetic, cultural, and ethical practice. Click here for more information on the "Minor in Translation Studies."© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAs of September 1, 2016, the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures will offer a new undergraduate program: the minor in East Asian Studies, Korea Subplan. The "Korea Subplan" minor has been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to the Korean language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia.The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements (see below). All courses for the minor must be taken for a letter grade and completed with a GPA of 2.0 or better. Consult with the department to potentially count one of the BOSP courses taught by a Stanford home campus faculty member toward the minor:​For questions or inquiries regarding the minor, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu). © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe undergraduate minors in Chinese and Japanese have been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to Chinese or Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia. The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements: One introductory core course, below. Three other departmental courses in the relevant field approved by the adviser, and language requirement as listed below.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe undergraduate minors in Chinese and Japanese have been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to Chinese or Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia. The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements: One introductory core course, below. Three other departmental courses in the relevant field approved by the adviser, and language requirement as listed below.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe undergraduate minors in Chinese and Japanese have been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to Chinese or Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia. The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements: One introductory core course, below. Three other departmental courses in the relevant field approved by the adviser, and language requirement as listed below.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe goal of the minor in East Asian Studies is to provide the student with a broad background in East Asian culture as a whole, while allowing the student to focus on a geographical or temporal aspect of East Asia. The minor may be designed from the following, for a total of six courses and a minimum of 20 units. All courses should be taken for a letter grade.Applications for the minor should be submitted online through Axess and are due no later than the second quarter of the junior year. East Asian Studies List of Area CoursesHumanitiesHistorySocial Sciences © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAs of September 1, 2016, the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures will no longer offer the undergraduate minor in Chinese. In its place the department instead offers the minor in East Asian Studies, China Subplan. The "China Subplan" minor has been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to the Chinese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia. Students who have delcared the Chinese minor prior to September 1, 2016 should still complete the Chinese minor requirements. Which can be found here.The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements (see below). All courses for the minor must be taken for a letter grade and completed with a GPA of 2.0 or better. Consult with the department to potentially count one of the BOSP courses taught by a Stanford home campus faculty member toward the minor:​For questions or inquiries regarding the minor, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu). © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAs of September 1, 2016, the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures will no longer offer the undergraduate minor in Japanese. In its place the department instead offers the minor in East Asian Studies, Japan Subplan. The "Japan Subplan" minor has been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to the Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia. Students who have delcared the Japanese minor prior to September 1, 2016 should still complete the Japanese minor requirements. Which can be found here.The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements (see below). All courses for the minor must be taken for a letter grade and completed with a GPA of 2.0 or better. Consult with the department to potentially count one of the BOSP courses taught by a Stanford home campus faculty member toward the minor:​For questions or inquiries regarding the minor, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu). © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAs of September 1, 2016, the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures will offer a new undergraduate program: the minor in East Asian Studies, Korea Subplan. The "Korea Subplan" minor has been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to the Korean language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia.The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements (see below). All courses for the minor must be taken for a letter grade and completed with a GPA of 2.0 or better. Consult with the department to potentially count one of the BOSP courses taught by a Stanford home campus faculty member toward the minor:​For questions or inquiries regarding the minor, please contact our department student services officer, Ai Tran (aitran@stanford.edu). © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe undergraduate minors in Chinese and Japanese have been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to Chinese or Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia. The minors consist of a minimum of 20 units from the following requirements: One introductory core course, below. Three other departmental courses in the relevant field approved by the adviser, and language requirement as listed below.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Division of Literatures, Cultures, and Languages (DLCL), in cooperation with East Asian Languages and Cultures (EALC) and the English Department, teaches undergraduates to develop and apply their foreign language knowledge to the production and analysis of translations. The minor is designed to give students majoring in a variety of fields the tools to consider the practical and theoretical issues brought up by translation as an aesthetic, cultural, and ethical practice.Minor Adviser: Cintia SantanaFaculty Director: Indra LevyThe DLCL offers a "Minor in Translation Studies" which may be of interest to students in EALC. See the DLCL's "Minors" tab for the full requirements; go to the menu in the right hand column and click on the link to the "Minor in Translation Studies". Course work in this minor may not duplicate work counted toward other majors or minors. Course selection must be approved by the minor adviser.Students must take a minimum of 23 units for a letter grade, in fulfillment of the following requirements:© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsStudents interested in majoring or minoring Chinese, Japanese, or East Asian Studies should contact our Department's Student Services Officer (aitran@stanford.edu) to schedule a meeting. During the meeting, students will go over departmental requirements to make sure that he or she understands program requirements before declaring the major or minor on Axess/Peoplesoft.Please note that the major/minor requirements may change from year-to-year, so students should check the bulletin archive to make sure that he or she completes the major requirements from the year that he or she has declared the major. Once the major/minor declaration is approved, students will be added onto our department mailing list to be notified of upcoming department events/opportunities relevant undergraduates in our department. Students' names and program(s) of study will also be added to our department website, under the Undergraduates section. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsEast Asian Languages and Cultures supports our students' interest in studying East Asia. Students interested in research may consider independent study or pursuing the honors program as part of their major. They may also choose to seek for funding sources outside of the department and ask EALC faculty members to serve as their adviser for their research projects. We have listed some resources that we recommend:As we discover more funding resources and research opportunities for our undergraduates, we will post them on this website, so please check back occasionally. You may also contact our Student Services Officer (aitran@stanford.edu) for more information.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThinking about studying away from Stanford?The Bing Overseas Study Program (BOSP) offers quarters abroad in twelve cities around the world, including summer options in Oaxaca, Cape Town, and Santiago, as well as shorter Overseas Seminars. In addition, you can do a quarter in Monterey with Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford-at-Sea (half in Monterey, half on a sailing ship in the South Pacific), a quarter in Hawaii with Earth Systems, or Stanford-in-Washington (policy-themed, plus a new arts-themed option in winter), or Stanford-in-NYC (launched Fall 2015 with an arts theme). EALC majors and minors studying at the Bing Overseas Program in Kyoto or Beijing may receive partial credit towards their undergraduate program requirements. For more details, please contact the Student Services Officer (aitran@stanford.edu)Stanford’s Beijing Program, opened in Autumn of 2004, is hosted by the prestigious Peking University (PKU), which is located just outside the heart of China’s bustling capital city. Open during Autumn and Spring quarters only, students are exposed to the rich culture of this paradoxically ancient and modern city through coursework and field trips. Courses are taught primarily in English. In Autumn 2016, Professor Yiqun Zhou will be teaching two courses at the BOSP: Beijing campus. For more information on the Beijing program, please visit BOSP: Beijing.With its history as Japan’s former Imperial capital for over a millennium, Kyoto is rightly famed for its ancient shrines and temples (which outnumber its convenience stores), its traditional ryokan inns and its centuries-old craftsmanship. Even today the city retains its status as the cultural capital of the nation. Despite its old-world feel Kyoto is an energetic city looking firmly to the future, with an impressive list of high tech companies making their home here. The Stanford in Kyoto center is situated inside Doshisha University, on the northern edge of the old Imperial Palace gardens in the heart of the city. Students can take Winter and/or Spring Quarter academic programs, as well as an optional 10-week summer internship at leading companies and institutions all over Japan. The curriculum typically combines intensive Japanese language study with Japan-focused content courses on culture, contemporary affairs, business and technology. For more information on the Beijing program, please visit BOSP: KyotoUndergraduates who have studied or plan on studying abroad through a non-Stanford overseas program should consult with the Student Services Officer (aitran@stanford.edu) on whether or not he or she may be eligible to receive partial credit through that undergraduate program. In the past, we have allowed partial credit for students who have studied at the Inter-University Center (IUC) for Japanese Language Studies and the Inter-University Program (IUP) for Chinese Language Studies.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOne prize is offered by the Asian Languages Department to an outstanding undergraduate who has written an outstanding essay for an EALC class on the literature or culture of China, Japan, and/or Korean in English and recommended by a teacher. The length of the essay is of secondary concern, but it should represent a substantial effort vis-à-vis the topic.One prize is offered by the Asian Languages Department to an outstanding undergraduate in a third or fourth year language course in the department. A major criterion in judging candidates for this prize will be overall progress in the language in question.Note: The undergraduate awards will be announced at the Diploma Ceremony for the Center of East Asian Studies and Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures. Award winners will be notified after the Ceremony.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints“I graduated from Stanford with a degree in Japanese ... I left to teach high school in Japan for a couple of years. It was a great experience: I solidified my language skills, gained some perspective on employment and life in Japan, and made lifelong friends. The linguistic and cultural understanding I gained at Stanford (and during my time in Japan) continues to enrich my life on a daily basis.”-- Mike Massey '[year?]The Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures Bachelor of Arts degrees in:Required courses and pre-requisites must be completed with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or better.Students majoring in Chinese, Japanese, or East Asian Studies with an overall GPA of 3.5 or higher may apply for the honors program honors program by submitting a senior thesis proposal to the honors committee during Winter or Spring Quarter of the junior year. If approved, research begins the Spring Quarter of the junior year, or by Autumn Quarter of the senior year at the latest. In Winter Quarter of the senior year, students enroll in independent study with the thesis supervisor while writing the thesis, and the finished essay (normally about 15,000 words) is submitted to the committee no later than April 15 of the senior year. For more information, please review the Honors Program requirements.The minor in Asian Languages (Chinese, Japanese or East Asian Studies) is also available. These have been designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain substantial introduction to Chinese (Mandarin) or Japanese language, as well as an introduction to the culture and civilization of East Asia.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints