What is the relationship between seen and unseen? How can the living communicate with the dead? What technologies apply to our inner lives? Examine the popular mystical practices of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.When in doubt, please check Explore Courses to verify our course offerings.Other useful links: Canvas & AxessYour contribution can further our academic and outreach programs.MAKE A GIFT© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOops! We can't find that page! We have a new site and things have moved around a bit. Here are some good places to start:HomepageSearch this site... Your contribution can further our academic and outreach programs.MAKE A GIFT© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOops! We can't find that page! We have a new site and things have moved around a bit. Here are some good places to start:HomepageSearch this site... Your contribution can further our academic and outreach programs.MAKE A GIFT© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsA Bachelor of Arts in Religious Studies requires 60 units of course work. At least 44 units are taken in courses numbered above 100. Ten units out of the 60 may be taken for the grade of ‘CR/NC.’A 25-30 page essay on a topic chosen by the student and approved by the advisor upon receipt of a student’s proposal by the end of the third quarter prior to expected graduation. The character and content of the essay, which is meant to allow the student to call into play knowledge and skills learned in the course of the major, may take several forms. For example, a student may return to a subject studied earlier but now pursued with more questions or from a new perspective, or research a recent or new topic of interest in the field, or offer a carefully framed critical assessment of what has been learned in the major based on review of influential sources, theories, and methods of studying religion. The senior essay is read and graded by the student’s advisor and one other member of the Religious Studies faculty.A 40-80 page research paper on a topic chosen by the student and approved by the advisor upon receipt of a proposal in the fourth quarter prior to expected graduation. The paper, supported by mastery of primary and secondary scholarship, advances a well-reasoned, supportable thesis. Writers of honors theses must have a grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 in Religious Studies courses, and at least 3.2 overall, and are expected to have already demonstrated success in writing research papers. The honors thesis is read and graded by the student’s advisor and one other member of the Religious Studies faculty. Theses earning a grade of ‘B+’ or above receive honors.A minor in Religious Studies requires a minimum of 30 graded units (S/NC or CR/NCR not permitted). Students are encouraged to focus their program of study either in a religious tradition or in a theme that cuts across traditions. Requirements for the minor are:The joint major in Philosophy and Religious Studies consists of 60 units of course work with approximately one third of them in the philosophy core, one third in the religious studies core, and one third as further coursework (either general major or special concentration). Affiliated courses cannot be used to satisfy any of these requirements. Students pursuing a joint major in Philosophy and Religious Studies may also apply for honors by following the procedure for honors in either of the departments.1. Core Requirements for Philosophy: Philosophy (PHIL) courses:2. Core Requirements for Religous Studies: Religious Studies (RELIGST) courses: 20 units, chosen in consultation with the student’s advisor, including:Rules relating to core requirements:3. Further Coursework (Choose either General Major or Specific Concentration):General Major – Five additional courses (approximately 20 units) divided between the two departments. No more than five of these units may come from courses numbered under 99 in either department. Each student must also take at least one undergraduate seminar in religious studies and one undergraduate seminar in philosophy.Special Concentration – With the aid of an advisor, students pursue a specialized form of inquiry in which the combined departments have strength; for example, American philosophy and religious thought, philosophical and religious theories of human nature and action, philosophy of religion. Courses for this concentration must be approved in writing by the advisor.Rules relating to further coursework:Your contribution can further our academic and outreach programs.MAKE A GIFT© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints