 Additional resources and information for:Work in the classroom, museum, and studio is designed to explore the historical and cultural meanings of works of art, to intensify visual perception of formal and expressive means, and to encourage insight into a variety of technical processes involved in the production of art, architecture, film, and design across a broad chronological and geographical range.  Area DirectorsArt History: Alexander Nemerov
	Art Practice: Gail Wight
	Film and Media Studies: Pavle Levi
	 The Department of Art & Art History offers the BA degree in Art History, Art Practice, and Film and Media Studies.  We also offer a BAS in Art Practice and Computer Sciences as a Joint Major. Art History: Jody Maxmin
	Art Practice: Terry Berlier
	Film and Media Studies: Usha IyerLearn more about the undergraduate programsThe Department of Art & Art History offers the PhD degree in Art History and the MFA degree in Art Practice and  Documentary Film and Video.Art History: Nancy J. Troy
	Art Practice: Xiaoze Xie
	Documentary Film and Video: Jamie MeltzerLearn more about the graduate programsMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Stanford offers Art & Art History students many opportunities to study art beyond the classroom. Stanford in Washington affords students interested in art and art history a special opportunity to benefit from a quarter-long residence in the nation's capital and take full advantage of the city's many resources in the visual and performing arts.  From the Smithsonian Institution to the Kennedy Center for the Arts, from the Arena Stage to the Phillips Collection among many other venues, Washington has a wide range of arts institutions providing excellent opportunities for student internships. The program features full-time internships for Stanford undergraduates that may be accompanied by evening courses on the cultural politics of art. The Department of Art and Art History enjoys a particularly close relationship to the program and faculty members regularly teach courses and offer workshops there. Stanford in Washington offers students an educational and professional experience unlike any other.Visit the Stanford In Washington website to learn moreThe Arts Intensive program offers students the unique opportunity to explore their creativity in small courses without the pressures that are often felt during the regular academic year. Arts Intensive creates an atmosphere of intense artistic exploration, encouraging collaboration and innovation.Visit the Summer Arts Intensive website to learn moreRegardless of the academic path you choose, you will be enriched by time spent in another country. This is especially true for students of art and art history, whose experiences abroad enable them to visit architectural sites, see original works of art, and engage with arts communities to broaden their understanding of the arts in unique ways that will complement their studies on campus.  Achieving cultural literacy and gaining substantive understanding of other perspectives in the world will deepen your awareness of yourself, your educational goals,  your own society and your own voice. Nearly one-half of each graduating class studies abroad through one of Stanford's overseas programs.Visit the Bing Overseas Studies website to learn moreArts Immersion trips give Stanford students an insider’s view into cultural capitals. Students travel with the Arts Institute Faculty Director and Programming Director for a week-long engagement with the arts, meeting institutional leaders, policy makers, and arts practitioners. They visit museums, galleries, concert halls; they see dance rehearsals, opera, and string quartets, and have a chance to meet with alumni in the arts. In the accompanying class, students study the history of the arts in the particular city and hone their critical skills for an end-of-course symposium presentation.Visit the Arts Immersion website to learn moreThis program allows Stanford students in any major to complete a capstone project integrating a broad arts perspective and receive “Honors in the Arts.” The program features two main tracks:Visit the Interdiciplinary Honors in the Arts website to learn more Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Additional resources and information for:Work in the classroom, museum, and studio is designed to explore the historical and cultural meanings of works of art, to intensify visual perception of formal and expressive means, and to encourage insight into a variety of technical processes involved in the production of art, architecture, film, and design across a broad chronological and geographical range.  Area DirectorsArt History: Alexander Nemerov
	Art Practice: Gail Wight
	Film and Media Studies: Pavle Levi
	 The Department of Art & Art History offers the BA degree in Art History, Art Practice, and Film and Media Studies.  We also offer a BAS in Art Practice and Computer Sciences as a Joint Major. Art History: Jody Maxmin
	Art Practice: Terry Berlier
	Film and Media Studies: Usha IyerLearn more about the undergraduate programsThe Department of Art & Art History offers the PhD degree in Art History and the MFA degree in Art Practice and  Documentary Film and Video.Art History: Nancy J. Troy
	Art Practice: Xiaoze Xie
	Documentary Film and Video: Jamie MeltzerLearn more about the graduate programsMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 ALBERT ELSEN PRIZE IN ART HISTORYAlex ZivkovicAward for excellence in honors thesis presentationAlex ZivkovicCHRISTOPHER MEYER PRIZEClara GalperinLorenz Eitner prize in art and art historyJosie Roland HodsonTHE QUAD AWARD IN ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY, GIVEN BY EILEEN & JOSEPH MICHELSNoam Shemtov
	 BARBARA & SANDY DORNBUSCH AWARD IN PAINTINGAlexandra Olga Catharina RisbergJOHN SHIVELY FOWLER AWARD in photographyJacqueline Rose LangelierANITA SQUIRE FOWLER AWARD IN PHOTOGRAPHYOmar ArasonRAINA GIESE AWARD IN CREATIVE PAINTINGWilliam Trevor Thompson Fetter & Allegra Clara McCombWEBSTER MCFARLAND AWARD IN DESIGNColin James Kimzey
	 KRISTINE SAMUELSON AWARD IN FILM & MEDIA STUDIESCleo Kimberly ChungLOUIS SUDLER PRIZE IN THE PERFORMING AND CREATIVE ARTSColin James Kimzey & Jacqueline Rose LangelierTHE ROBERT M. GOLDEN MEDAL FOR EXCELLENCE IN THE HUMANITIES & CREATIVE ARTSQuyen Thi Hoang NguyenTHE ROBERT M. GOLDEN MEDAL FOR performance IN THE HUMANITIES & CREATIVE ARTSJacqueline Rose Langelier
	  
	 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 It is recommended that students considering a major in film and media studies take FILMSTUD 4 Introduction to Film Study, and are encouraged to take either ARTHIST 1A Introduction to the Visual Arts: History of Western Art from the Renaissance to the Present or ARTHIST 1B Introduction to the Visual Arts: Pre-historic through Medieval, during their freshman or sophomore year. These courses anchor the major through exposure to film language, genre, and visual and narrative structures. Majors are required to take one course in the fundamentals of film and video production.For the most up to date information about requirements for the Film & Media Studies major, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. BA Film & Media Studies Degree RequirementsA minor in Film Studies requires four core courses and three elective courses for a total of seven courses. Courses must focus on film and use the method of film study towards completion of the minor; courses that use film to illustrate a cultural topic are not eligible. Film Production and Studio Art courses may not be counted as fulfilling the requirements.For the most up to date information about requirements for the Film & Media Studies minor, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. Film & Media Studies Minor Degree Requirements Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs: The Department of Art & Art History offers a PhD degree in Art History and MFA degrees with fields of study in Art Practice and Documentary Film and Video.There are approximately 40 students in the Art History program, 10 students in the Art Practice program, and 16 students in the Documentary Film and Video program.PhD Art HistoryMFA Art PracticeMFA Documentary Film and VideoMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:The Department offers MA and PhD degrees, although the MA is only granted as a step toward fulfilling requirements for the PhD. The department does not admit students who wish to work only toward the MA degree.For the most up to date information about Art History PhD degree requirements, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. PhD Degree RequirementsMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:Stanford University is committed to building a diverse student population. To that end, we encourage applications from students of all ethnic and economic backgrounds.The application  for admission  as well as general information about applying is available from the Graduate Admissions website; please visit  Graduate Admissions to apply. Prior to applying you must first determine if you are eligible - application eligibility (undergraduate degree requirements). International applicants, please also see Bechtel International Center and Graduate Admissions International Applicants for more information and any additional application requirements.
	Prospective students may apply beginning in late September (please verify the precise date on the Graduate Admissions website). The following documents are required by the university and can not be waived;  please click on the links for more detailed information about each:GRE scores: Required for ALL applicants; NO exceptions (please do not contact the department requesting to waive this requirement). Please note that scores expire after five years. Please see Required Exams for more information. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that the scores are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline.Three letters of recommendation: Letters must be received by the application deadline. The department does not accept applicant recommendation via a letter service (i.e. Interfolio or other service). For additional information, please see Submitting Online Recommendations. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that letters are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline.Transcripts: Upload a scanned copy of your official transcript (s) into the on-line application. In addition to uploading a scanned copy of the transcript, applicants must arrange to have two official transcripts sent from every post-secondary institution attended, for at least one academic year, as a full-time student. Please see Transcripts for more information and guidelines on submitting official transcripts.Statement of Purpose: You must indicate in the first sentence of your SOP the name of the program to which you are applying and the area you wish to study (e.g. PhD in Art History – Modern)Application fee: The application fee $125, is non-refundable, and must be received by the application deadline (fee waivers are available to eligible students. Please see Graduate Fee Waivers for more information). Please do not contact the department requesting to waive the application fee.TOEFL scores: Required when first language is not English; IELTS is not accepted. Please see Required Exams for more information, including the minimum TOEFL requirements. Please note that the department can NOT waive the TOEFL requirement. If you wish to submit a request for TOEFL waiver, please see GRE and TOEFL Requirements. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that the scores are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline. (Note: To bypass the entry of TOEFL scores in the application, enter a future test date. You can add in the additional information section of the application that you have received a waiver from Graduate Admissions.)Complete online application* Please note - application materials will not be returned nor released to another institution; please keep a copy for your own record.*In addition to the university application materials listed above, applicants in Art History are required to submit a writing sample.  You should upload your writing sample along with your application (only one writing sample will be accepted). It should be 20 pages maximum, including illustrations and bibliography – neither papers over this limit nor entire Master’s theses will be accepted.For admission in Autumn Quarter 2018-19, all required application materials, including your test scores, must be received on-line by no later than Tuesday, December 5, 2017.Note: The Graduate Admissions period is open beginning in September each year for applications to be submitted by the published deadline in December (for matriculation beginning in the following academic year). After April 15th each year, the Graduate Admissions period is closed, and the online application will reopen during the following September.Application review takes place between mid-February and mid-March; applicants are notified by mail of their status around March 15th. Accepted students are admitted for the following Autumn Quarter; no applicants for mid-year entrance will be considered.  You will be contacted via e-mail regarding your application status after the deadline; please do not contact the Department in this regard.
	Applicants who are chosen as finalists for admissions are asked to make themselves available for an individual interview by faculty via Skype.  Admitted prospective students are invited for a campus visit intended to introduce them to faculty, current graduate students, and to members of the larger Stanford community involved in the arts.  Library, museum and other facilities are part of this introduction to the PhD program in Art History at Stanford.Start Your ApplicationThe Knight-Hennessy Scholars program is designed to build a multidisciplinary community of Stanford graduate students dedicated to finding creative solutions to the world's greatest challenges. The program awards up to 100 high-achieving students every year with full funding to pursue a graduate education at Stanford, including PhD's in Art History. To be considered, you must apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars by September 27, 2017, and separately apply to the Art & Art History department by November 15, 2017. Please see Knight-Hennessy Scholars Admission for additional information, including eligibility and application requirements.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:Stanford University is committed to building a diverse student population. To that end, we encourage applications from students of all ethnic and economic backgrounds.The application  for admission  as well as general information about applying is available from the Graduate Admissions website, please visit  to Graduate Admissions to apply. Prior to applying you must first determine if you are eligible - application eligibility (undergraduate degree requirements). International applicants, please also see Bechtel International Center and Graduate Admissions International Applicants for more information and any additional application requirements.
	Prospective students may begin to apply late September (please verify this date on the Graduate Admissions website). The following documents are required by the university and can not be waived,  please click on the links for more detailed information about each:GRE scores: Required for ALL applicants; NO exceptions (please do not contact the department requesting to waive this requirement). Please note that scores expire after five years. Please see Required Exams for more information. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that the scores are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline.Three letters of recommendation: Letters must be received by the application deadline. The department does not accept applicant recommendation via a letter service (i.e. Interfolio or other service). For additional information, please see Submitting Online Recommendations. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that letters are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline.Transcripts: Upload a scanned copy of your official transcript (s) into the on-line application. In addition to uploading a scanned copy of the transcript, applicants must arrange to have two official transcripts sent from every post-secondary institution attended, for at least one academic year, as a full-time student. Please see Transcripts for more information and guidelines on submitting official transcripts.Statement of Purpose: You must indicate in the first sentence of your SOP the name of the program to which you are applying and the area you wish to study (e.g. MFA in Art Practic – Painting).Application fee: The application fee $125, is non-refundable, and must be received by the application deadline (fee waivers are available to eligible students. Please see Graduate Fee Waivers for more information). Please do not contact the department requesting to waive the application fee.TOEFL scores: Required when first language is not English; IELTS is not accepted. Please see Required Exams for more information, including the minimum TOEFL requirements. Please note that the department can NOT waive the TOEFL requirement. If you wish to submit a request for TOEFL waiver, please see GRE and TOEFL Requirements. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that the scores are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline. (Note: To bypass the entry of TOEFL scores in the application, enter a future test date. You can add in the additional information section of the application that you have received a waiver from Graduate Admissions.)Complete online application* Please note - application materials will not be returned nor released to another institution, please keep a copy for your own record.*In addition to the university application materials (above), applicants are required to submit a portfolio by the application deadline (9pm PST, December 5, 2017).  All applicants are expected to have a substantial body of work represented in their portfolio, which is the most important part of the application, and should give evidence of the applicant’s maturity, imagination and skill.  Your portfolio should be submitted through Slideroom, at http://stanfordart.slideroom.com. Please follow the instructions on how to upload your portfolio (online tutorial provided). There is a $10 fee. (Note: Name on your application must match the name on your portfolio.)For all mediums you must include a typed list identifying works by date, medium, size, title and other information as appropriate. Also include any special viewing information on this list. This should be submitted as a PDF file via Slideroom with your portfolio, not the electronic graduate application.For admission for Autumn Quarter 2018-2019, the application deadline is Tuesday, December 5, 2017.Note: The Graduate Admissions period is open beginning in September each year for applications to be submitted by the published deadline in December (for matriculation beginning in the following academic year). After April 15th each year, the Graduate Admissions period is closed, and the online application will reopen during the following September.The application review takes place between mid-January and mid-March. Accepted students are admitted for the following Autumn Quarter; no applicants for mid-year entrance will be considered.  You will be contacted via e-mail regarding your application status after the deadline (by mid March); please do not contact the department.
	Applicants who are chosen as finalists will be required to travel to Stanford for an interview conducted by a faculty and student committee; interviews will be held at the end of February.Start Your ApplicationThe Knight-Hennessy Scholars program is designed to build a multidisciplinary community of Stanford graduate students dedicated to finding creative solutions to the world's greatest challenges. The program awards up to 100 high-achieving students every year with full funding to pursue a graduate education at Stanford, including master's in Art Practice. To be considered, you must apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars by September 27, 2017, and separately apply to the Art & Art History department by November 15, 2017. Please see Knight-Hennessy Scholars Admission for additional information, including eligibility and application requirements. Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:For the most up to date information about our MFA Art Practice degree requirements, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. MFA Degree Requirementsscroll to "Master of Fine Arts in Art Practice (Studio)" Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:The MFA program provides a rigorous and demanding educational environment appropriate to the needs of strongly motivated students.Participants are chosen for the program on the basis of work that indicates high artistic individuality, achievement, and promise. Candidates should embody the intellectual curiosity and broad interests appropriate to, and best served by, work and study within the University context.The non medium-specific program provides a demanding curriculum and encourages experimental and innovative integration of media and interdisciplinary approach to art-making informed by contemporary theory, criticism and broader culture. The small program facilitates intimate interaction between peers and with the faculty in an intellectual community, and affords a wealth of professional experience in teaching art at the highest academic level via teaching assistantships and solo teaching of undergraduate courses.The Department admits 5 students each year to this program.Two years; students are required to be in residence at Stanford for the full two years of the program.Through a combination of fellowship funds and teaching assistantships, each Art Practice graduate student normally receives an aid package that includes tuition and stipend as well as small materials grants. Additional information about graduate financial aid, including a student budget and tuition calculator are available at http://financialaid.stanford.edu/grad. Graduate students in the MFA Art Practice program have individual studio space provided at the Bleeker site, three buildings located in a remote and quiet section of the campus. The studios vary in size from 300 to 800 square feet. Students also have access to woodworking and machine shops, and the photo and digital labs.  Many of our students also utilize the Product Realization Lab in the School of Mechanical Engineering.Stanford University maintains a Paris studio apartment. The Departments of Art & Art History, Music, Drama, Film, Dance, and Creative Writing may nominate one student each for this studio residency. The Associate Dean of Humanities and Sciences then makes the final selection of two students for six-month residencies. The residency takes place following graduation from the MFA Program. Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:We will be holding Informational Sessions in the department for prospective MFA Art Practice graduate students again in Fall 2017.  This is an opportunity for prospective students to familiarize themselves with the program and answer any questions.  We understand that for many applicants a visit is not feasible, so please be assured that those applicants who we do meet are not privileged in the application process.McMurtry Building, Seminar Room 370 (located on the third floor of McMurtry Building)(RSVP is required to participate)Thursday, October 19, 3:30-5:30PM PSTThursday, October 26, 3:30-5:30PM PSTThursday, November 9, 3:30-5:30PM PSTDuring the visit, you can meet with faculty members, have a tour of the facilities, and view recent student work. Prospective students should plan to be here for 2 hours. These visits may occur before the application or once you have applied, but must be scheduled in advance.Reach campus at least 20 minutes ahead of time to allow time to find parking and walk to McMurtry Building. Campus parking meters accept quarters, and many parking areas have pay stations or meters that accept credit cards. See the visitor parking map for more information.Due to the overwhelming interest in the MFA Art Practice Program, we are not able to offer individual campus tours or visits with faculty. For a tour of the campus, please visit the website for Stanford's Campus Walking Tour. Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:The Sandman - Trailer (2016, dir. Lauren Knapp) from Stanford MFA in Documentary Film on Vimeo.Situated in the Department of Art & Art History as part of Stanford’s program in Film and Media Studies, the Master of Fine Arts program in documentary production provides a historical, theoretical, and critical framework within which students master the conceptual and practical skills for producing nonfiction film and video.The MFA degree is designed to prepare students for professional careers in film, video, and digital media. Graduates are qualified to teach at the university level. The philosophy of the program is predicated on a paradigm of independent media that values artistic expression, aesthetics, social awareness, and an articulated perspective. Students become conversant with the documentary tradition as well as with alternative media and new directions in documentary.In addition to the core production courses, students take a range of film studies, documentary film history, art history, and art practice courses, helping them situate their documentary film practice within a context of critical engagement with the world. The MFA degree is designed to prepare students for professional careers in film, video, and digital media. Graduates are qualified to teach at the university level. In their first year, students learn the fundamentals of visual storytelling, working in a range of media, from black and white 16mm film to digital video. Each film is made within a collaborative partnership, and while students serve as directors of their own projects, the partnerships encourage collegial interaction and foster community, one of the strengths of the program. A testament to the success of this approach is the number of long-standing professional relationships among our graduate alumni.In their second year, the students produce a 15-20 minute thesis film over the course of the academic year. The films engage with pressing social issues while taking a bold, cinematic approach to documentary storytelling. Thesis films from the program have gone on to screen at major festivals (Sundance, SXSW, and Tribeca, among others), have been broadcast on PBS’ POV and Independent Lens, featured on the NYTimes’ Op-Docs, and have won major awards. Stanford films have garnered more Student Academy Awards in the Documentary Category than any other college or university. The Department admits 8 students each year to this program.Two years; students are required to be in residence at Stanford for the full two years of the program.Documentary Film graduate students normally receive a generous amount of fellowship support. If admitted, you will be notified of any tuition fellowship we are able to offer for your first year of study. Additional information about graduate financial aid, including a student budget and tuition calculator are available at http://financialaid.stanford.edu/grad.AdmissionDegree RequirementsCampus VisitsAnnual NewsletterStudent AwardsStudent WorksMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:We will be holding Informational Sessions, both on-site and virtual, for prospective MFA Documentary Film and Video graduate students again in Fall 2017.  This is an opportunity for prospective students to familiarize themselves with the program and answer any questions.  We understand that for many applicants a visit is not feasible, so please be assured that those applicants who we do meet are not privileged in the application process.McMurtry Art & Art History Building, Green Screen Prod Room 018 (located in the basement)(RSVP is required to participate)Tuesday, November 14, 3:30-5:30PM PSTDuring the visit, you can meet with faculty members, have a tour of the facilities, and view recent student work. Prospective students should plan to be here for 2 hours. These visits may occur before the application or once you have applied, but must be scheduled in advance.Reach campus at least 20 minutes ahead of time to allow time to find parking and walk to McMurtry Building. Campus parking meters accept quarters, and many parking areas have pay stations or meters that accept credit cards. See the visitor parking map for more information.Due to the overwhelming interest in the MFA Documentary Film and Video Program, we are not able to offer individual campus tours or visits with faculty. For a tour of the campus, please visit the website for Stanford's Campus Walking Tour.The department will be holding virtual info sessions in Fall 2017 for prospective students who are not able to attend any info sesssions in-person (RSVP is required to participate; you will receive instructions on how to join the info webinar for which you have signed up via email).Tuesday, November 14, 12:00-1:00PM PSTMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:Stanford University is committed to building a diverse student population. To that end, we encourage applications from students of all ethnic and economic backgrounds.The program is intensive and requires residency for two consecutive years. The admissions committee seeks applicants who are highly motivated, have some work experience beyond their undergraduate years, and can articulate why they want to learn documentary film and video production. The committee looks for evidence of the likelihood of success in an academically demanding program that emphasizes creative work. The conceptual and technical skills required for documentary work are sufficiently different from fictional narrative to make the Stanford program inappropriate for students interested in narrative filmmaking.The application for admission as well as general information about applying is available from the Graduate Admissions website, please visit  to Graduate Admissions to apply. Prior to applying you must first determine if you are eligible - application eligibility (undergraduate degree requirements). International applicants, please also see Bechtel International Center and Graduate Admissions International Applicants for more information and any additional application requirements.
	Prospective students may begin to apply late September (please verify this date on the Graduate Admissions website). The following documents are required by the university and can not be waived,  please click on the links for more detailed information about each:GRE scores: Required for ALL applicants; NO exceptions (please do not contact the department requesting to waive this requirement). Please note that scores expire after five years. Please see Required Exams for more information. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that the scores are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline.Three letters of recommendation: Letters must be received by the application deadline. The department does not accept applicant recommendation via a letter service (i.e. Interfolio or other service). For additional information, please see Submitting Online Recommendations. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that letters are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline.Transcripts : Upload a scanned copy of your official transcript (s) into the on-line application. In addition to uploading a scanned copy of the transcript, applicants must arrange to have two official transcripts sent from every post-secondary institution attended, for at least one academic year, as a full-time student. Please see Transcripts for more information and guidelines on submitting official transcripts.Statement of Purpose: You must indicate in the first sentence of your SOP the name of the program to  which you are applying and the area you wish to study.Application fee: The application fee $125, is non-refundable, and must be received by the application deadline (fee waivers are available to eligible students. Please see Graduate Fee Waivers for more information). Please do not contact the department requesting to waive the application feeTOEFL scores: Required when first language is not English; IELTS is not accepted. Please see Required Exams for more information, including the minimum TOEFL requirements. Please note that the department can NOT waive the TOEFL requirement. If you wish to submit a request for TOEFL waiver, please see GRE and TOEFL Requirements. It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that the scores are submitted to the electronic application by the published deadline. (Note: To bypass the entry of TOEFL scores in the application, enter a future test date. You can add in the additional information section of the application that you have received a waiver from Graduate Admissions.) Complete online application* Please note - application materials will not be returned nor released to another institution, please keep a copy for your own record.*Note: The Graduate Admissions period is open beginning in September each year for applications to be submitted by the published deadline in December (for matriculation beginning in the following academic year). After April 15th each year, the Graduate Admissions period is closed, and the online application will reopen during the following September.Start Your ApplicationThe Knight-Hennessy Scholars program is designed to build a multidisciplinary community of Stanford graduate students dedicated to finding creative solutions to the world's greatest challenges. The program awards up to 100 high-achieving students every year with full funding to pursue a graduate education at Stanford, including master's in Documentary Film and Video. To be considered, you must apply to Knight-Hennessy Scholars by September 27, 2017, and separately apply to the Art & Art History department by November 15, 2017. Please see Knight-Hennessy Scholars Admission for additional information, including eligibility and application requirements.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:For the most up to date information about our MFA Documentary Film and Video degree requirements, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. MFA Degree Requirementsscroll to "Master of Fine Arts in Documentary film and video"Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:The doctoral program in the History of Art at Stanford is relatively small, affording graduate students the opportunity to work intensively with individual members of the faculty.The Doctor of Philosophy degree is taken in a particular field, including Film & Media Studies, supported by a strong background in the general history of art. Doctoral candidates also undertake collateral studies in other graduate departments, or in one of the University's interdisciplinary programs. The Department of Art & Art History offers MA and PhD degrees, although the MA is only granted as a step toward fulfilling requirements for the PhD.
	The Department does not admit students who wish to work only toward the MA degree.  However, Stanford undergraduates have the option to apply for a Coterminal MA in Art History.The Department admits approximately 4 to 7 students each year to the PhD program. The PhD student's formal progress to degree is reviewed at the end of the second year (first year for those entering with an MA). By the end of the third year, a dissertation topic should be selected and a proposal written. After all course requirements are met and the proposal is approved, the student begins research and writing of the dissertation. The dissertation must be completed within five years from the date of the student's admission to candidacy for the PhD degree.Art History PhD students normally receive a financial support package covering five years of graduate study.  Funding sources include departmental fellowships, teaching assistantships and research assistantships. Additional funding covers summer language study as well as summer research.  Students manage an individual research and travel fund provided by the department.  Advanced students are encouraged to apply for outside grants and fellowships as well as for assistantships and other professionally valuable opportunities at Stanford's Cantor Arts Center, Anderson Collection and elsewhere on campus. Information on language study grants, pre-doctoral grants, and funds for special research and travel connected with the writing of the dissertation may be obtained from the Student Services Officer. Additional information about graduate financial aid, including a student budget and tuition calculator, is available at http://financialaid.stanford.edu/grad.PhD AdmissionDegree RequirementsCampus Visit
	 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Resources for graduate students currently enrolled in our programs:There are no Informational Sessions for the Art History Program, but please feel free to contact  the Student Services Manager or a faculty member in your desired field with any specific questions. For a tour of the campus, please visit the website for Stanford's Campus Walking Tour. Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The Department of Art & Art History offers the BA degree in Art History, Art Practice, and Film & Media Studies.  In addition, we offer a BAS degree in Art Practice + CS.The undergraduate programs are designed to help students think critically about the visual arts and visual culture. Courses focus on the meaning of images and media, their historical development, roles in society, and relationships to disciplines such as literature, music, and philosophy. Work performed in the classroom, studio, and screening room is designed to develop a student's powers of perception, capacity for visual analysis, knowledge of technical processes, and apprciation for the significance of art across a broad chronological and geographical range.Art HistoryArt PracticeArt Practice+CS Joint MajorFilm & Media StudiesIf you would like to discuss any of the programs with a current student, please contact one of our Peer Advisers.Stanford undergraudates, regardless of undergraduate major, who wish to pursue an MA in Art History may apply for the Coterminal Master's Program.The Department of Art & Art History offers Honors Programs in Art History, Film and Media Studies, and Art Practice. Learn more about honorsStudents wishing to declare a major or minor should schedule an appointment with the Undergraduate Coordinator.  At this meeting you will review the program requirements and select a faculty advisor. Students may then declare on Axess, and the Undergraduate Coordinator will approve your declaration request.Learn more about how to declareMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 (2014) ARTHIST 208B: The Art of Medieval Spain: Muslims, Christians, JewsStudents considering a major in art history should take either  ARTHIST 1A Introduction to the Visual Arts: Prehistoric through Medieval  or ARTHIST 1B Introduction to the Visual Arts: History of Western Art from the Renaissance to the Present, during their freshman or sophomore year.Students who wish to declare the major in Art History do so on Axess. Concentrations within the major are approved by the faculty adviser and are not declared on Axess. Sample concentrations include:For the most up to date information about requirements for the Art History major, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. BA Art History Degree RequirementsA student declaring a minor in Art History must complete 25 units of course work in one of the following four tracks: Open, Modern, Asian, or Architecture. Upon declaring the minor, students are assigned a faculty adviser with whom they plan their course of study and electives. A proposed course of study must be approved by the faculty adviser and placed in the student's departmental file. Only one class may be taken for credit outside of the Stanford campus; this includes courses taken in the Overseas Studies Program. Minors are required to attend an orientation session presented by the professional staff of the Art and Architecture Library, which introduces the tools of research and reference available on campus and through the Internet. This requirement should be completed no later than the quarter following the declaration of the minor.For the most up to date information about requirements for the Art History minor, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. Art History Minor Degree RequirementsMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students who wish to major in Art Practice declare the Art major with a field in Art Practice on Axess. Students are exposed to a range of practices early in their development in order to have a solid basis for comparison if they choose to focus on a particular medium. This sequence of courses also broadens the students’ skills and enables them to combine materials and methods. In all courses students are expected to pass mid term and final reviews and critiques of their work.For the most up to date information about requirements for the Art Practice major, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. BA Art Practice Degree RequirementsA student declaring a minor in Art Practice must complete 36 units of Art Practice and Art History course work. All minors are required to attend an orientation session presented by the professional staff of the Art and Architecture Library, which introduces the tools of research and reference available on campus and through the internet. Minors are required to meet with both their faculty adviser and the undergraduate coordinator during the first two weeks of each quarter to have course work approved and to confirm that they are meeting degree requirements.For the most up to date information about requirements for the Art Practice minor, please click the link below to the Stanford Bulletin. Art Practice Minor Degree RequirementsMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students with extraordinary talent in the fine or performing arts—art practice, dance, music and theater—may submit an Arts Portfolio with their application for admission to Stanford. The Arts Portfolio enables those applicants intending to participate in the Stanford arts community to highlight their talents during the admission process. Submission of these materials is entirely optional; they are reviewed at the discretion of the Office of Undergraduate Admission and the arts faculty. All materials must be submitted online at the Stanford Slideroom webpage, stanford.slideroom.com.Students who submit an Arts Portfolio are not required to major in the arts at Stanford. Similarly, students who do not submit an Arts Portfolio may nevertheless study or participate in the arts at Stanford.To best demonstrate your talent, the Art Department recommends that your Arts Portfolio focus on one particular medium (drawings and paintings may be submitted together). An Arts Portfolio that exceeds the number of images indicated will not be evaluated. Although Stanford offers a Film and Media Studies major and minor, we do NOT accept Arts Portfolios for this program.If you have further questions about the Arts Portfolio, please consult the detailed instructions at the  Stanford Undergraduate Admissions office webpage or contact the Art & Art History Department at (650) 723-3404.Submit ten slides in any of the following: still life, figure, landscape, portrait, self-portrait, deliberate abstraction. Drawings and paintings may be submitted as one Arts Portfolio not to exceed 10 images.Submit ten images of three-dimensional works in any or all of the following: mixed media, wood, metal, clay, installation or found objects. We offer neither ceramics courses nor facilities and do not accept ceramics portfolios that are not sculpture-based.Submit ten images.Submit no more than three video segments, totaling no more than ten minutes. If your work is a website, please do NOT submit the link or HTML code. Instead, make a video that demonstrates the operation of the site. You may also submit slides for this category if your work is through digital media, and you feel it could not be captured through video.Q: Can I submit actual photos, paintings, art materials or CDs/DVDs for consideration?
	A: No, you may not mail any physical items or works of art for consideration.  All submissions must be made online via the Stanford Slideroom webpage.  Visit admission.stanford.edu/arts for detailed instructions. Q: Do I have to be an art major if I submit an Arts Portfolio?
	A: No, submitting an Arts Portfolio does not require or admit you to the Art Practice program.  The Arts Portfolio is intended for any student with an extraordinary talent and passion for art, regardless of their intended major.  Once you arrive at Stanford, we welcome students of any major to enroll in art courses.Q: Can I submit more than ten images?
	A: No, if you submit more than ten images the Arts Portfolio will not be reviewed.Q: Can I submit less than 10 images or less than 3 video segments?
	A: Yes. These numbers are maximums, not minimums. That is, you are welcome to submit your work as long as you display it between 1 and 10 images or 1 and 3 video segments.Q: Can I submit more than one Arts Portfolio?
	A: No, you are only allowed to submit ONE Arts Portfolio.Q: Can I submit an Arts Portfolio with drawings, paintings, and photos?
	A: Yes, you can include different media, but the strongest Arts Portfolios demonstrate talent in one particular area (drawing and painting may be submitted as one Arts Portfolio).  The maximum number still cannot exceed ten images.Q: Can I send my Arts Portfolio directly to the Department?
	A: No, all materials must be submitted online at the Stanford Slideroom webpage, stanford.slideroom.com.Q: Are there restrictions on what I can submit?
	A: We do not accept ceramics, clothing design, jewelry design, or film portfolios.Q: I don't think my artwork fits into any of the categories listed on your website. What should I do?
	A: We think it is critical for each applicant to use their best judgement and send work that best reflects them as an artist. We ultimately leave the choice up to the individual on the artwork they submit and which category they enter their submission into.Q: Can I submit a piece that I worked on with other people?
	A: Yes, but you must clearly explain what your role was and what part of the piece you were responsible for.Q: My piece was included in a magazine or show; can I submit the magazine or catalog?
	A: Please include only the pages or section with images of your work.Q: Can I stop by to meet with someone about my Arts Portfolio?
	A: Due to the large number of Arts Portfolios received, we are unable to meet with applicants individually.If you have further questions about the Arts Portfolio, please consult the detailed instructions at the  Stanford Undergraduate Admissions office webpage or contact the Art & Art History Department at (650) 723-3404.
	   Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 “Thank you for challenging me and pushing me to think one step further, it has made me a better student and a more curious thinker.” -Jordan Hart, 2014 HOnors student
	 The purpose of this honors program is to allow students to extend and deepen work they have found fascinating in earlier classes. To embark on a thesis means developing your voice as a writer, advancing research in the field, making works that matter to you visible in new ways. This process, from start to finish, is closely supported by Art and Art History faculty and Library staff.Learn more about Honors in Art History & Film and Media StudiesThe purpose of the honors thesis exhibition is to extend and deepen artwork students have done in Art Practice classes. The thesis exhibition is not an exploration of an area that the student has never studied before. The topic should have focus and clear parameters. It is expected that students have a solid background in their field of study prior to applying to the honors program. Exposure to a wide range of courses and familiarity with faculty will benefit you in this process.Learn more about Honors in Art PracticeMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The purpose of the Honors program is to give Art and Art History students the opportunity to extend and deepen work they have found compelling in their classes and in the process to develop original, advanced-level research and writing while working in close consultation with a member of the faculty. 
	Director of Honors Program: Adam Tobin                                    AutumnWeek 1Submit annotated bibliography and outline/project narrativeAutumn*Week 4Autumn*Week 6Winter*Week 2Winter*Week 6Spring*Week 1Final thesis due (50-60 pages)3 hard copies (advisor, second faculty reader, and administration)May*Chapter deadlines autumn/winter quarters to be decided between student and advisor.Helpful Information for Honors StudentsGetting Started on the Honors ProposalGuidelines for Writing an Honors ProposalHonors Timeline and DetailsMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The Department of Art & Art History honors program is open to Art Practice Majors. The purpose of the honors thesis exhibition is to extend and deepen artwork students have done in Art Practice classes. The thesis exhibition is not an exploration of an area that the student has never studied before. The topic should have focus and clear parameters. It is expected that students have a solid background in their field of study prior to applying to the honors program. Exposure to a wide range of courses and familiarity with faculty will benefit you in this process.Honors Thesis Exhibition Proposal, Artwork, and Study Plan Due*See Honors Applying Guidelines above for more informaitonApril 15AutumnWeek 1AutumnWeek 2AutumnWeek 3AutumnWeek 4AutumnWeek 5AutumnWeeks 6-8AutumnWeek 9AutumnWeek 10WinterWeek 2WinterWeek 4WinterWeek 5WinterWeek 9WinterWeek 10SpringWeek 1SpringWeek 2SpringWeek 3SpringWeek 4SpringWeek 5SpringWeek 6SpringWeek 7SpringWeek 9 SpringWeek 10 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Chloe Colberg, Art Practice
	VulnerableMaia Paroginog, Art Practice
	Mark These Cradles: On Approaching GroundlessnessSam Klotz, Art History
	Whistler's Ghosts: Portraiture, Photography, and Painting at the Turn of the Twentieth CenturyKyla Crisostomo, Art History
	Body and Soul: The Food-Based Performance Art of Barbara SmithJake Harbour, Film & Media Studies
	The Empty Shot: Hitchcock, Ozu, and LangJordan Hart, Art History
	The Guggenheim Effect: Controversy, Expansion, and Finance within the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation  Brady Magaoay, Art History
	Gendering the Abstract: A Feminist Analysis of Helen FrankenthalerMichaela Khalfayan, Art History
	Through the Looking Glass: Reflections of the Ambiguity of the Mirror in ArtSophia Villarreal, Art History
	Art as Political Engagement: A Feminist Analysis of the Works of Nancy Spero and Ambreen ButtAnnie Dauber, Art History
	Costuming the Modern Body for the Ballets Russes: An analysis of costumes in Parade (1917) and Les Noces (1923)Alex Fialho, Art History
	Painting pleasures: queer voices in Glenn Ligon's earliest text paintings and beyond. Sarah Grandin, Art History
	Chardin's tables: painting the substrate of eighteenth-century Paris.Jamie Kwan, Art History
	Imaging childhood: children in genre painting in seventeenth-century Holland and eighteenth-century France.Elizabeth Grace Davis, Art History
	An embodied eye: phenomenology, photography and the mosaics of Cappella Palatina.Diana Bowers, Art History
	The gentle art of advertising oneself: James Abbott McNeill Whistler and the artistic persona.Jett Fein, Art History
	Picturing the end of Habsburg Spain: Juna Carreno de Miranda and Luca Giordano and painting in the Court of Charles II (1665-1700).Luise Richter, Film & Media Studies
	Wonderful, wonderful day: the Western film musical in Post-War America.Ariella Tai, Film & Media Studies
	Der West: a study of the East German Westerns.Nisa Ari, Art History
	“Getting from Here to There”: the dissolution of geographic identity and the materialization of a new critical aesthetic in contemporary Turkish artwork at Platform Garaniti Contemporary Art Center-Istabnbul, Turkey.Rachel Danford, Art History
	Death and digestion: the mouth of hell at Autun and what it meant to be eaten in Medieval Art.Marian Lee, Art History
	Looking into the mirror: Pan Yuliang and the representation of the artist.Alisa Chiles, Art History
	Reason, iron, and the age: the significance of Hector Guimard’s organic rationalist architecture.Mark Lieber, Film & Media Studies
	Responding to anti-semitism through film: terror management theory and its applicability to Yiddish film from 1936 to 1939.Emily Liu, Art History
	Love, illness, aesthetics: responding to Eugene Richards’ exploding into life.Nico Machida, Art History
	Art in intellectual architecture: New Museum projects by Rem Koolhaas/OMA, Herzog & de Meuron, and Diller Scofido + Renfro.Jessica Ruffin, Film & Media Studies
	Cinematic case studies in national socialist aesthetics.Julie Yen, Art History
	Resistance to translation: the installations of Chen Zhen and Huang Yongping.Tsion Lencho, Art History
	Possession-Appropriation-own[ership]: African art in post-colonial times.Arden Pennell, Art History
	Why are they so happy? Berlin’s Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe as spatial heir to the urban palimpsest. Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Ideally, all prospective majors and minors in Art History, Art Practice, or Film and Media Studies should take during their freshman or sophomore year:Please schedule an appointment with the Undergraduate Coordinator, before declaring the major or minor in Axess.  This meeting should occur during the first two weeks of the quarter, or as soon as a student decides to declare the major/minor.  At this meeting you will review the program requirements and administrative forms.  The Undergraduate Coordinator will also review your transcript and outline the coursework required to complete the relevant degree requirements.You will need to declare the major/minor officially through Axess (http://axess.stanford.edu).  After you declare the major/minor, your request will be finalized--provided you have met with the Undergraduate Coordinator.The Undergraduate Coordinator will discuss the selection of a faculty adviser with you during your first scheduled meeting.  You may request a particular faculty member to act as your adviser; however, the designation of a particular adviser depends upon the number of undergraduate students already working with that faculty member. Your adviser must be a  member of the regular Stanford faculty (not an adjunct lecturer or adjunct professor). An Adviser Approval Request form must be signed by both the student and the faculty adviser in order for the request to be finalized and entered into Axess. Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The Department of Art & Art History offers the BA degree in Art History, Art Practice, and Film & Media Studies.  In addition, we offer a BAS degree in Art Practice + CS.The undergraduate programs are designed to help students think critically about the visual arts and visual culture. Courses focus on the meaning of images and media, their historical development, roles in society, and relationships to disciplines such as literature, music, and philosophy. Work performed in the classroom, studio, and screening room is designed to develop a student's powers of perception, capacity for visual analysis, knowledge of technical processes, and apprciation for the significance of art across a broad chronological and geographical range.Art HistoryArt PracticeArt Practice+CS Joint MajorFilm & Media StudiesIf you would like to discuss any of the programs with a current student, please contact one of our Peer Advisers.Stanford undergraudates, regardless of undergraduate major, who wish to pursue an MA in Art History may apply for the Coterminal Master's Program.The Department of Art & Art History offers Honors Programs in Art History, Film and Media Studies, and Art Practice. Learn more about honorsStudents wishing to declare a major or minor should schedule an appointment with the Undergraduate Coordinator.  At this meeting you will review the program requirements and select a faculty advisor. Students may then declare on Axess, and the Undergraduate Coordinator will approve your declaration request.Learn more about how to declareMake a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Limited funds are available in the Department for students enrolled in our courses.  Proposals must be submitted ONLINE by the final study list deadline.Awarded on a competitive basis, these grants are intended to pay the direct costs of materials for students who undertake independent creative projects on an advanced level.  Material grants cannot be used towards supplies for classes.
	 Material Grant ApplicationStudents in financial need may apply for funding to cover the cost of required art practice course materials.  Each case is considered on its own merit and the applicant's financial status is evaluated.  This support cannot be used towards course fees. Funding for this grant is on a first-come, first serve basis until funds are no longer available for the quarter.Financial Support ApplicationBoth Stanford Arts and The Undergraduate Advising and Research Office offers several grants students can use towards art and film related research and projects.  Grant types are below:   Small Grants of up to $1500 maximum support smaller independent projects, and can also be used to enable a particular phase of a larger-scale effort. Application deadlines are found throughout the year, making the Small Grant especially flexible.Major Grants provide a 10-week stipend of $6400 in support of full-time immersive summer project commitments. Most Major Grants are awarded to students beginning an honors thesis, a senior project in the arts, or senior synthesis project between their junior and senior years.Chappell Lougee Scholarships provide a 10-week stipend of $6400 for sophomores pursuing full-time immersive summer projects in the humanities, creative arts, and qualitative social sciences.Conference Grants of up to $1500 support students who have been accepted to present their own project results at a professional or scholarly conference.Open to undergraduates and graduates. Individual or group projects are accepted, with priority given to projects focusing on exhibitions. Projects must be extra-curricular, and not related to coursework, degrees, or senior honors thesis or MFA work. Funding is not intended for travel or lodging expenses or for major equipment purchases. Funding does not generally pay for stipends or hiring professionals. Awards are made up to $1,500 per grant and expected to be completed within two quarters after being awarded.For undergraduate students. Individual or group projects are accepted, with priority given to projects focusing on events on campus such as live performances, film screenings, and concerts. Projects must be extra-curricular, and not related to coursework, degrees, or senior honors thesis. Funding is not intended for travel or lodging expenses or for major equipment purchases. Funding does not generally pay for stipends or hiring professionals. Awards are made up to $1,500 per grant and expected to be completed within two quarters after being awarded.Open to undergraduates and graduates. These grants are intended to support student performances in some of the most sought after spaces on campus.The MashUp Grant seeks to support artists and creations that do not fit neatly into pre-existing groups, classes, and departments on campus. It is designed to encourage collaboration and experimentation, and to support projects that give audiences new insight into the possibility of art.Offered by the Stanford Arts Office of the Associate Dean for the Advancement of the Arts.Primary Contact: Sophia Villarreal (sophiav1@stanford.edu, 650.725.0054)This grant supports extracurricular visual arts projects for display at Party on the Edge, Frost Music and Arts Festival, and other venues. Awarded in the fall and spring quarters. Offered by the Student Organizing Committee for the Arts (SOCA).  Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 An artist in the techie world or the techie world in the artist? The joint major program in CS+Art Practice will allow students to create and develop themselves in a spectrum and society of constant innovation and growth. The program will push students to their creative and scientific limits and beyond by fusing the digital and visual world of technology and art. The joint major will facilitate more in-depth study of the shared thinking and values of both programs, allowing students to truly excel at melding these intrinsically complementary fields. It will expand on and incorporate the use of computing concepts and practices in contemporary art, as well as related topics in engineering, social media, and emerging technologies.The joint major program (JMP), authorized by the Academic Senate for a pilot period of six years, permits students to major in both Computer Science and one of ten Humanities majors. All courses comprising the major must be taken for a letter grade.  Students in the Art Practice and Computer Science joint major program must complete a minimum of 61 units in the Department of Art & Art History including:Please refer to Computer Science Joint Major page in the Bulletin for details on the CS requirements. 
	 The art practice senior seminar (4 units) in conjunction with the computer science capstone course (3-5 units) will enable students to produce a creative and in-depth senior capstone project that will highlight the successful integration of the two disciplines. An advisor from each program will guide and assess the project throughout the academic year. The completed project will be included in the Senior Exhibit.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Stanford undergraduates, regardless of undergraduate major, who wish to pursue an MA in Art History may apply for the coterminal master’s program. 
	University requirements for the coterminal MA are described in the "Coterminal Bachelor's and Master's Degrees" section of the Bulletin. Additional information can be found in the “Applying to Coterm" section of the University Registrar’s page. For an overview of coterminal program admissions and matriculation rules, please see the Stanford Undergrad Coterm Guide.Undergraduates must be admitted to the program and enrolled as a graduate student for at least one quarter prior to their BA conferral.  A cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 in previous undergraduate work is required for admission; GRE test scores are not required.  The department accepts applications once a year; the application deadline is January 16, 2018 for admission in the Spring quarter immediately following. There are no exceptions to this deadline. The department does not fund coterminal MA students. The online coterm application will open in mid-September for those applying for admission for Spring 2017-18.To apply for admission to the Art History coterminal MA program, students must submit the coterminal online application and the following:Requirements for the coterminal master’s degree program include the following:Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 An artist in the techie world or the techie world in the artist? The joint major program in CS+Art Practice will allow students to create and develop themselves in a spectrum and society of constant innovation and growth. The program will push students to their creative and scientific limits and beyond by fusing the digital and visual world of technology and art. The joint major will facilitate more in-depth study of the shared thinking and values of both programs, allowing students to truly excel at melding these intrinsically complementary fields. It will expand on and incorporate the use of computing concepts and practices in contemporary art, as well as related topics in engineering, social media, and emerging technologies.The joint major program (JMP), authorized by the Academic Senate for a pilot period of six years, permits students to major in both Computer Science and one of ten Humanities majors. All courses comprising the major must be taken for a letter grade.  Students in the Art Practice and Computer Science joint major program must complete a minimum of 61 units in the Department of Art & Art History including:Please refer to Computer Science Joint Major page in the Bulletin for details on the CS requirements. 
	 The art practice senior seminar (4 units) in conjunction with the computer science capstone course (3-5 units) will enable students to produce a creative and in-depth senior capstone project that will highlight the successful integration of the two disciplines. An advisor from each program will guide and assess the project throughout the academic year. The completed project will be included in the Senior Exhibit.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 A peer advisor from each program is selected every year to serve as a mentor, tutor, and resource to undergraduates in the department.They are aware of the requirements of the department, as well as other University resources, and hold office hours in Room 355 (3rd Floor) of the McMurtry Building.  In addition to advising undergraduates and answering questions from prospective students, they plan events and workshops with the Undergraduate Coordinator to promote greater interaction among students in the department.Bio: Paritosh, known better as PK, is a junior Art History major form Mumbai, India. His primary interests lie in Eastern Art and he is passionate about the need for its greater representation in the art world. In his free time, PK likes to write fiction, sing a cappella, play cricket or put up posters in his room.                                            Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 A peer advisor from each program is selected every year to serve as a mentor, tutor, and resource to undergraduates in the department.They are aware of the requirements of the department, as well as other University resources, and hold office hours in Room 355 (3rd Floor) of the McMurtry Building.  In addition to advising undergraduates and answering questions from prospective students, they plan events and workshops with the Undergraduate Coordinator to promote greater interaction among students in the department.Bio: Paritosh, known better as PK, is a junior Art History major form Mumbai, India. His primary interests lie in Eastern Art and he is passionate about the need for its greater representation in the art world. In his free time, PK likes to write fiction, sing a cappella, play cricket or put up posters in his room.                                            Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Guides created by Writing Specialist, Dr. Gabrielle Moyer, for students in Art & Art HistoryWriting In Art HistoryCrafting a Persuasive Research StatementCrafting a Persuasive Job LetterPreparing to Go on the Academic Job MarketWriting AssessmentAssignments in the Syllabus
	  Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This lecture course explores Greek art and culture from 1000-480.  In the beginning archaic art forms are more abstract than life-like, closer to Calder than Michelangelo.  While Homer describes the rippling muscles (and egos) of his heroes, vase-painters and sculptors prefer abstraction.  This changes in the 7th C. as a result of commerce with the Near East and Egypt.  Imported Near Eastern bronzes and ivories awaken the Greeks to a wider range of subjects, techniques and ambitions.  Later in the century, Greeks in Egypt learn to carve hard stone from Egyptian masters.  Throughout the 6th C. Greek artists assimilate what they had borrowed, compete with one another, defy their teachers, test the tolerance of the gods and eventually produce works of art that speak with a Greek accent.  When the Persians invade the Acropolis in 480, they find artifacts with little trace of alien influence or imprint - omens of the defiant Greek military that would prevail at Salamis and Plataea.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This lecture course explores Greek art and culture from 1000-480.  In the beginning archaic art forms are more abstract than life-like, closer to Calder than Michelangelo.  While Homer describes the rippling muscles (and egos) of his heroes, vase-painters and sculptors prefer abstraction.  This changes in the 7th C. as a result of commerce with the Near East and Egypt.  Imported Near Eastern bronzes and ivories awaken the Greeks to a wider range of subjects, techniques and ambitions.  Later in the century, Greeks in Egypt learn to carve hard stone from Egyptian masters.  Throughout the 6th C. Greek artists assimilate what they had borrowed, compete with one another, defy their teachers, test the tolerance of the gods and eventually produce works of art that speak with a Greek accent.  When the Persians invade the Acropolis in 480, they find artifacts with little trace of alien influence or imprint - omens of the defiant Greek military that would prevail at Salamis and Plataea.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This lecture course explores Greek art and culture from 1000-480.  In the beginning archaic art forms are more abstract than life-like, closer to Calder than Michelangelo.  While Homer describes the rippling muscles (and egos) of his heroes, vase-painters and sculptors prefer abstraction.  This changes in the 7th C. as a result of commerce with the Near East and Egypt.  Imported Near Eastern bronzes and ivories awaken the Greeks to a wider range of subjects, techniques and ambitions.  Later in the century, Greeks in Egypt learn to carve hard stone from Egyptian masters.  Throughout the 6th C. Greek artists assimilate what they had borrowed, compete with one another, defy their teachers, test the tolerance of the gods and eventually produce works of art that speak with a Greek accent.  When the Persians invade the Acropolis in 480, they find artifacts with little trace of alien influence or imprint - omens of the defiant Greek military that would prevail at Salamis and Plataea.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Visual artists have long been in the forefront of social criticism in America. Since the 1960s, various visual strategies have helped emergent progressive political movements articulate and represent complex social issues. Which artists and particular art works/projects have become key anchors for discourses on racism, sexism, economic and social inequality, immigrant rights and climate change? We will learn about a spectrum of political art designed to raise social awareness, spark social change and rouse protest. The Art Workers Coalition¿s agit-prop opposing the Vietnam War and ACT-UP¿s emblematic signs and symbols during the AIDS/HIV crisis of the 1980s galvanized a generation into action. Works such as Judy Chicago¿s The Dinner Party (1979), Fred Wilson¿s Mining the Museum (1992), and Glenn Ligon¿s paintings appropriating fragments from African-American literature all raised awareness by excavating historical evidence of the long legacy resisting marginalization. For three decades feminist artists Barbara Kruger and the Guerilla Girls have combined institutional critique and direct address into a provocative form of criticality. Recent art for social justice is reaching ever broadening publics by redrawing the role of artist and audience exemplified by the democratization of poster making and internet campaigns of Occupy and the Movement for Black Lives. We will also consider the collective aesthetic activisms in the Post-Occupy era including Global Ultra Luxury Faction, Climate Justice art projects, and the visual culture of Trump era mass protests. Why are each of these examples successful as influential and enduring markers of social criticism? What have these socially responsive practices contributed to our understanding of American history?Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Visual artists have long been in the forefront of social criticism in America. Since the 1960s, various visual strategies have helped emergent progressive political movements articulate and represent complex social issues. Which artists and particular art works/projects have become key anchors for discourses on racism, sexism, economic and social inequality, immigrant rights and climate change? We will learn about a spectrum of political art designed to raise social awareness, spark social change and rouse protest. The Art Workers Coalition¿s agit-prop opposing the Vietnam War and ACT-UP¿s emblematic signs and symbols during the AIDS/HIV crisis of the 1980s galvanized a generation into action. Works such as Judy Chicago¿s The Dinner Party (1979), Fred Wilson¿s Mining the Museum (1992), and Glenn Ligon¿s paintings appropriating fragments from African-American literature all raised awareness by excavating historical evidence of the long legacy resisting marginalization. For three decades feminist artists Barbara Kruger and the Guerilla Girls have combined institutional critique and direct address into a provocative form of criticality. Recent art for social justice is reaching ever broadening publics by redrawing the role of artist and audience exemplified by the democratization of poster making and internet campaigns of Occupy and the Movement for Black Lives. We will also consider the collective aesthetic activisms in the Post-Occupy era including Global Ultra Luxury Faction, Climate Justice art projects, and the visual culture of Trump era mass protests. Why are each of these examples successful as influential and enduring markers of social criticism? What have these socially responsive practices contributed to our understanding of American history?Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From the late Ming period (ca. 1600) to early 20th century Chinese arts. Topics include: urban arts and print culture; commodification of art; painting theories; self portrayals; art sponsorship, collecting, and ideological programs at the Qing imperial court; media and modernity in Shanghai; art and politics in early 20th century China.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From the late Ming period (ca. 1600) to early 20th century Chinese arts. Topics include: urban arts and print culture; commodification of art; painting theories; self portrayals; art sponsorship, collecting, and ideological programs at the Qing imperial court; media and modernity in Shanghai; art and politics in early 20th century China.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From the late Ming period (ca. 1600) to early 20th century Chinese arts. Topics include: urban arts and print culture; commodification of art; painting theories; self portrayals; art sponsorship, collecting, and ideological programs at the Qing imperial court; media and modernity in Shanghai; art and politics in early 20th century China.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 In 1968, the Asian American Political Alliance began a successful campaign to jettison the designation "oriental" in favor of "Asian American."  Given the term's recent genesis, what do we refer to when we discuss "Asian American art," and how can we speak of its history? This lecture class will explore these questions by considering artists, craftsmen, and laborers of Asian descent in the United States, beginning with Chinese immigration to California in the mid-nineteenth century, and extending through our current moment of globalization.  We will consider their work alongside art and visual culture of the United States that engages "Asia" as a place, idea, or fantasy. Special attention will be paid to the crucial role Asia and Asian Americans played in movements including photography in San Francisco, Abstract Expressionism, Beat Culture, performance art, and New Queer Cinema.  Artists include Chiura Obata, Isamu Noguchi, Yoko Ono, Nam June Paik, Manuel Ocampo, Zarina, and Wu Tsang, among many others.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 In 1968, the Asian American Political Alliance began a successful campaign to jettison the designation "oriental" in favor of "Asian American."  Given the term's recent genesis, what do we refer to when we discuss "Asian American art," and how can we speak of its history? This lecture class will explore these questions by considering artists, craftsmen, and laborers of Asian descent in the United States, beginning with Chinese immigration to California in the mid-nineteenth century, and extending through our current moment of globalization.  We will consider their work alongside art and visual culture of the United States that engages "Asia" as a place, idea, or fantasy. Special attention will be paid to the crucial role Asia and Asian Americans played in movements including photography in San Francisco, Abstract Expressionism, Beat Culture, performance art, and New Queer Cinema.  Artists include Chiura Obata, Isamu Noguchi, Yoko Ono, Nam June Paik, Manuel Ocampo, Zarina, and Wu Tsang, among many others.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 In 1968, the Asian American Political Alliance began a successful campaign to jettison the designation "oriental" in favor of "Asian American."  Given the term's recent genesis, what do we refer to when we discuss "Asian American art," and how can we speak of its history? This lecture class will explore these questions by considering artists, craftsmen, and laborers of Asian descent in the United States, beginning with Chinese immigration to California in the mid-nineteenth century, and extending through our current moment of globalization.  We will consider their work alongside art and visual culture of the United States that engages "Asia" as a place, idea, or fantasy. Special attention will be paid to the crucial role Asia and Asian Americans played in movements including photography in San Francisco, Abstract Expressionism, Beat Culture, performance art, and New Queer Cinema.  Artists include Chiura Obata, Isamu Noguchi, Yoko Ono, Nam June Paik, Manuel Ocampo, Zarina, and Wu Tsang, among many others.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course surveys the history of Western painting from the start of the 14th century to the late 20th century and our own moment.  Lectures introduce important artists (Giotto, Rembrandt, Velazquez, Goya, Manet, Matisse, Pollock, and others), and major themes associated with the art of particular periods and cultures.  The course emphasizes training students to look closely at - and to write about - works of art.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course surveys the history of Western painting from the start of the 14th century to the late 20th century and our own moment.  Lectures introduce important artists (Giotto, Rembrandt, Velazquez, Goya, Manet, Matisse, Pollock, and others), and major themes associated with the art of particular periods and cultures.  The course emphasizes training students to look closely at - and to write about - works of art.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course surveys the history of Western painting from the start of the 14th century to the late 20th century and our own moment.  Lectures introduce important artists (Giotto, Rembrandt, Velazquez, Goya, Manet, Matisse, Pollock, and others), and major themes associated with the art of particular periods and cultures.  The course emphasizes training students to look closely at - and to write about - works of art.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The seminar covers a range of topics devoted to the makers of Greek art and artifacts, the ancient Greeks who used them in life and the afterlife, and the miscreants - from Lord Elgin to contemporary tomb-looters and dealers-  whose deeds have damaged, deracinated and desecrated temples, sculptures and grave goods.  Readings include ancient texts in translation, books and articles by eloquent experts, legal texts and lively page-turners.  Classes meet in the seminar room and the Cantor Center.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The seminar covers a range of topics devoted to the makers of Greek art and artifacts, the ancient Greeks who used them in life and the afterlife, and the miscreants - from Lord Elgin to contemporary tomb-looters and dealers-  whose deeds have damaged, deracinated and desecrated temples, sculptures and grave goods.  Readings include ancient texts in translation, books and articles by eloquent experts, legal texts and lively page-turners.  Classes meet in the seminar room and the Cantor Center.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The seminar covers a range of topics devoted to the makers of Greek art and artifacts, the ancient Greeks who used them in life and the afterlife, and the miscreants - from Lord Elgin to contemporary tomb-looters and dealers-  whose deeds have damaged, deracinated and desecrated temples, sculptures and grave goods.  Readings include ancient texts in translation, books and articles by eloquent experts, legal texts and lively page-turners.  Classes meet in the seminar room and the Cantor Center.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The cities and buildings of the Iberian World of Spain, Portugal, and Ibero-America are a testament to the role architecture played during the centuries-long process of colonization: to its power since 1492 to disrupt and transform pre-existing material and cultural landscapes and thus facilitate the conquest of the New World and its peoples. In addition to their survival as symbols of power for many decolonized nations, now as then, the conspicuous archives of a conflicted history the particular nature of these constructions (the sheer perplexing quality of their decoration, for instance, encompassing at once pre-Columbian and Baroque motifs and techniques) demands we pay attention to their complexity, richness, and sophistication as well and in doing so, question canonical definitions of style, chronology, or authorship. Besides pairing recent scholarship with the examination of case studies, the seminar also makes extensive use of the work of George Kubler to help us understand what it means to encounter, study, and write about an architectural phenomenon of transoceanic cohesion within competing chronologies, and how that experience should transform us in return: it is no coincidence that after pondering the art and architecture of the Iberian World and its roots, Kubler published his groundbreaking The Shape of Time.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The cities and buildings of the Iberian World of Spain, Portugal, and Ibero-America are a testament to the role architecture played during the centuries-long process of colonization: to its power since 1492 to disrupt and transform pre-existing material and cultural landscapes and thus facilitate the conquest of the New World and its peoples. In addition to their survival as symbols of power for many decolonized nations, now as then, the conspicuous archives of a conflicted history the particular nature of these constructions (the sheer perplexing quality of their decoration, for instance, encompassing at once pre-Columbian and Baroque motifs and techniques) demands we pay attention to their complexity, richness, and sophistication as well and in doing so, question canonical definitions of style, chronology, or authorship. Besides pairing recent scholarship with the examination of case studies, the seminar also makes extensive use of the work of George Kubler to help us understand what it means to encounter, study, and write about an architectural phenomenon of transoceanic cohesion within competing chronologies, and how that experience should transform us in return: it is no coincidence that after pondering the art and architecture of the Iberian World and its roots, Kubler published his groundbreaking The Shape of Time.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The cities and buildings of the Iberian World of Spain, Portugal, and Ibero-America are a testament to the role architecture played during the centuries-long process of colonization: to its power since 1492 to disrupt and transform pre-existing material and cultural landscapes and thus facilitate the conquest of the New World and its peoples. In addition to their survival as symbols of power for many decolonized nations, now as then, the conspicuous archives of a conflicted history the particular nature of these constructions (the sheer perplexing quality of their decoration, for instance, encompassing at once pre-Columbian and Baroque motifs and techniques) demands we pay attention to their complexity, richness, and sophistication as well and in doing so, question canonical definitions of style, chronology, or authorship. Besides pairing recent scholarship with the examination of case studies, the seminar also makes extensive use of the work of George Kubler to help us understand what it means to encounter, study, and write about an architectural phenomenon of transoceanic cohesion within competing chronologies, and how that experience should transform us in return: it is no coincidence that after pondering the art and architecture of the Iberian World and its roots, Kubler published his groundbreaking The Shape of Time.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Why was Salvador Dalí fascinated with the architecture of Gaudí? Why did André Breton, Paul Éluard and Federico García Lorca visit Barcelona? Moreover, why did Catalonia become such an important cradle for Surrealism? Why is the (Catalan) landscape such a relevant presence in the work of Miró and Dalí? Through a critical analysis and discussion of selected works of art and literature, this seminar focuses and follows the trajectories of Miró and Dalí, from Barcelona to Paris to New York, and explores the role of their Catalan background as a potentially essential factor in their own contributions to Surrealism and the reception of their work. The course will provide the materials and guide the student to conduct research on a specific work(s) of art, architecture, literature or cinema either by Miró, Dalí or one of his peers in relation to their cultural, social and political context. The course is intended for graduate students in Iberian and Comparative Literature, Art History, Cultural Studies, and related fields. Taught in English by Jordi Falgàs i Casanovas.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Why was Salvador Dalí fascinated with the architecture of Gaudí? Why did André Breton, Paul Éluard and Federico García Lorca visit Barcelona? Moreover, why did Catalonia become such an important cradle for Surrealism? Why is the (Catalan) landscape such a relevant presence in the work of Miró and Dalí? Through a critical analysis and discussion of selected works of art and literature, this seminar focuses and follows the trajectories of Miró and Dalí, from Barcelona to Paris to New York, and explores the role of their Catalan background as a potentially essential factor in their own contributions to Surrealism and the reception of their work. The course will provide the materials and guide the student to conduct research on a specific work(s) of art, architecture, literature or cinema either by Miró, Dalí or one of his peers in relation to their cultural, social and political context. The course is intended for graduate students in Iberian and Comparative Literature, Art History, Cultural Studies, and related fields. Taught in English by Jordi Falgàs i Casanovas.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the intersection of art, business, and the law from a number of different angles, focusing on issues that impact our understanding of works of art and their circulation in the modern and contemporary periods.  Topics range from individual case studies (e.g., Leonardo da Vinci; Richard Serra) to the consolidation of the art market, and include cultural heritage issues, problems of censorship, and conceptions of authorship and intellectual property.nnIn Autumn 2017-18 this course will be offered at Stanford in Washington in Washington, D.C. and enrollment is limited to students who are enrolled in the SIW Program.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the intersection of art, business, and the law from a number of different angles, focusing on issues that impact our understanding of works of art and their circulation in the modern and contemporary periods.  Topics range from individual case studies (e.g., Leonardo da Vinci; Richard Serra) to the consolidation of the art market, and include cultural heritage issues, problems of censorship, and conceptions of authorship and intellectual property.nnIn Autumn 2017-18 this course will be offered at Stanford in Washington in Washington, D.C. and enrollment is limited to students who are enrolled in the SIW Program.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the intersection of art, business, and the law from a number of different angles, focusing on issues that impact our understanding of works of art and their circulation in the modern and contemporary periods.  Topics range from individual case studies (e.g., Leonardo da Vinci; Richard Serra) to the consolidation of the art market, and include cultural heritage issues, problems of censorship, and conceptions of authorship and intellectual property.nnIn Autumn 2017-18 this course will be offered at Stanford in Washington in Washington, D.C. and enrollment is limited to students who are enrolled in the SIW Program.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Planned to coincide with a special international exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum of works by the seventeenth century figure painter and print designer Chen Hongshou (1598-1652), this seminar will explore his art and cultural environment.  Along with close study of his original paintings, we will study his connections with printmaking and publishing, fiction and drama culture, and his literary, social and patronage networks.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Planned to coincide with a special international exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum of works by the seventeenth century figure painter and print designer Chen Hongshou (1598-1652), this seminar will explore his art and cultural environment.  Along with close study of his original paintings, we will study his connections with printmaking and publishing, fiction and drama culture, and his literary, social and patronage networks.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Planned to coincide with a special international exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum of works by the seventeenth century figure painter and print designer Chen Hongshou (1598-1652), this seminar will explore his art and cultural environment.  Along with close study of his original paintings, we will study his connections with printmaking and publishing, fiction and drama culture, and his literary, social and patronage networks.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course explores the longstanding association of photography with truth and the ways in which writing can direct attention to, elaborate on, or distract from the image. We will investigate the role of writing in making these truth claims for photography over the past two centuries and across photography¿s many discursive fields, from journalism, advertising, and scientific photographs, to works made by artists and amateurs. Among other questions, we will address the following: How has writing about photography engaged with assumptions of truthfulness? How have artists and writers challenged expectations for a straightforward relationship between photography and truth? Students will produce writing in relation to photographs that spans several artistic and art historical modes, from the critical and didactic to the expository and essayistic, with the aim of creating several polished pieces of writing, of varying lengths, ready for publication at the end of the quarter. Required course for Art History majors. WIM Course. May be repeat for credit.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course explores the longstanding association of photography with truth and the ways in which writing can direct attention to, elaborate on, or distract from the image. We will investigate the role of writing in making these truth claims for photography over the past two centuries and across photography¿s many discursive fields, from journalism, advertising, and scientific photographs, to works made by artists and amateurs. Among other questions, we will address the following: How has writing about photography engaged with assumptions of truthfulness? How have artists and writers challenged expectations for a straightforward relationship between photography and truth? Students will produce writing in relation to photographs that spans several artistic and art historical modes, from the critical and didactic to the expository and essayistic, with the aim of creating several polished pieces of writing, of varying lengths, ready for publication at the end of the quarter. Required course for Art History majors. WIM Course. May be repeat for credit.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course explores the longstanding association of photography with truth and the ways in which writing can direct attention to, elaborate on, or distract from the image. We will investigate the role of writing in making these truth claims for photography over the past two centuries and across photography¿s many discursive fields, from journalism, advertising, and scientific photographs, to works made by artists and amateurs. Among other questions, we will address the following: How has writing about photography engaged with assumptions of truthfulness? How have artists and writers challenged expectations for a straightforward relationship between photography and truth? Students will produce writing in relation to photographs that spans several artistic and art historical modes, from the critical and didactic to the expository and essayistic, with the aim of creating several polished pieces of writing, of varying lengths, ready for publication at the end of the quarter. Required course for Art History majors. WIM Course. May be repeat for credit.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This lecture course surveys the history of architecture and urbanism, from the first societies to the present, in Europe, West and East Asia, the Americas, and Africa. The course progresses by case studies of exemplary monuments and cities, and examines the built environment as both cultural artifact and architectural event. It considers the social and political circumstances of architectural invention as well as plumbing the depth of artistic context by which particular formal choices resonate with an established representational culture.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From the late Ming period (ca. 1600) to early 20th century Chinese arts. Topics include: urban arts and print culture; commodification of art; painting theories; self portrayals; art sponsorship, collecting, and ideological programs at the Qing imperial court; media and modernity in Shanghai; art and politics in early 20th century China.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From the late Ming period (ca. 1600) to early 20th century Chinese arts. Topics include: urban arts and print culture; commodification of art; painting theories; self portrayals; art sponsorship, collecting, and ideological programs at the Qing imperial court; media and modernity in Shanghai; art and politics in early 20th century China.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From the late Ming period (ca. 1600) to early 20th century Chinese arts. Topics include: urban arts and print culture; commodification of art; painting theories; self portrayals; art sponsorship, collecting, and ideological programs at the Qing imperial court; media and modernity in Shanghai; art and politics in early 20th century China.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This lecture course surveys the history of architecture and urbanism, from the first societies to the present, in Europe, West and East Asia, the Americas, and Africa. The course progresses by case studies of exemplary monuments and cities, and examines the built environment as both cultural artifact and architectural event. It considers the social and political circumstances of architectural invention as well as plumbing the depth of artistic context by which particular formal choices resonate with an established representational culture.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This lecture course surveys the history of architecture and urbanism, from the first societies to the present, in Europe, West and East Asia, the Americas, and Africa. The course progresses by case studies of exemplary monuments and cities, and examines the built environment as both cultural artifact and architectural event. It considers the social and political circumstances of architectural invention as well as plumbing the depth of artistic context by which particular formal choices resonate with an established representational culture.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The cities and buildings of the Iberian World of Spain, Portugal, and Ibero-America are a testament to the role architecture played during the centuries-long process of colonization: to its power since 1492 to disrupt and transform pre-existing material and cultural landscapes and thus facilitate the conquest of the New World and its peoples. In addition to their survival as symbols of power for many decolonized nations, now as then, the conspicuous archives of a conflicted history the particular nature of these constructions (the sheer perplexing quality of their decoration, for instance, encompassing at once pre-Columbian and Baroque motifs and techniques) demands we pay attention to their complexity, richness, and sophistication as well and in doing so, question canonical definitions of style, chronology, or authorship. Besides pairing recent scholarship with the examination of case studies, the seminar also makes extensive use of the work of George Kubler to help us understand what it means to encounter, study, and write about an architectural phenomenon of transoceanic cohesion within competing chronologies, and how that experience should transform us in return: it is no coincidence that after pondering the art and architecture of the Iberian World and its roots, Kubler published his groundbreaking The Shape of Time.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The cities and buildings of the Iberian World of Spain, Portugal, and Ibero-America are a testament to the role architecture played during the centuries-long process of colonization: to its power since 1492 to disrupt and transform pre-existing material and cultural landscapes and thus facilitate the conquest of the New World and its peoples. In addition to their survival as symbols of power for many decolonized nations, now as then, the conspicuous archives of a conflicted history the particular nature of these constructions (the sheer perplexing quality of their decoration, for instance, encompassing at once pre-Columbian and Baroque motifs and techniques) demands we pay attention to their complexity, richness, and sophistication as well and in doing so, question canonical definitions of style, chronology, or authorship. Besides pairing recent scholarship with the examination of case studies, the seminar also makes extensive use of the work of George Kubler to help us understand what it means to encounter, study, and write about an architectural phenomenon of transoceanic cohesion within competing chronologies, and how that experience should transform us in return: it is no coincidence that after pondering the art and architecture of the Iberian World and its roots, Kubler published his groundbreaking The Shape of Time.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The cities and buildings of the Iberian World of Spain, Portugal, and Ibero-America are a testament to the role architecture played during the centuries-long process of colonization: to its power since 1492 to disrupt and transform pre-existing material and cultural landscapes and thus facilitate the conquest of the New World and its peoples. In addition to their survival as symbols of power for many decolonized nations, now as then, the conspicuous archives of a conflicted history the particular nature of these constructions (the sheer perplexing quality of their decoration, for instance, encompassing at once pre-Columbian and Baroque motifs and techniques) demands we pay attention to their complexity, richness, and sophistication as well and in doing so, question canonical definitions of style, chronology, or authorship. Besides pairing recent scholarship with the examination of case studies, the seminar also makes extensive use of the work of George Kubler to help us understand what it means to encounter, study, and write about an architectural phenomenon of transoceanic cohesion within competing chronologies, and how that experience should transform us in return: it is no coincidence that after pondering the art and architecture of the Iberian World and its roots, Kubler published his groundbreaking The Shape of Time.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The early modern artist who imbues his subjects with movement is praised by his critics above all others, for he can do what is impossible: give life to dead matter. Movement is sometimes suggested, a trick of the eye that leads the spectator to anticipate a moment just about to unfold. Other times, the artist is said to conjure a living figure, whose flesh trembles with breath and a beating pulse. This seminar explores these and other examples of movement, instances that negotiate the relationship between depicted and actual movement with the emotion it stirs (affect). We will also study movement¿s relation to narrative and descriptive language (history and ekphrasis), and art¿s ability to move through time (Warburg¿s Pathosformel) and space (artworks and artists that travel). A study of movement uncovers multiple contradictions and possibilities in the history of art.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The early modern artist who imbues his subjects with movement is praised by his critics above all others, for he can do what is impossible: give life to dead matter. Movement is sometimes suggested, a trick of the eye that leads the spectator to anticipate a moment just about to unfold. Other times, the artist is said to conjure a living figure, whose flesh trembles with breath and a beating pulse. This seminar explores these and other examples of movement, instances that negotiate the relationship between depicted and actual movement with the emotion it stirs (affect). We will also study movement¿s relation to narrative and descriptive language (history and ekphrasis), and art¿s ability to move through time (Warburg¿s Pathosformel) and space (artworks and artists that travel). A study of movement uncovers multiple contradictions and possibilities in the history of art.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The early modern artist who imbues his subjects with movement is praised by his critics above all others, for he can do what is impossible: give life to dead matter. Movement is sometimes suggested, a trick of the eye that leads the spectator to anticipate a moment just about to unfold. Other times, the artist is said to conjure a living figure, whose flesh trembles with breath and a beating pulse. This seminar explores these and other examples of movement, instances that negotiate the relationship between depicted and actual movement with the emotion it stirs (affect). We will also study movement¿s relation to narrative and descriptive language (history and ekphrasis), and art¿s ability to move through time (Warburg¿s Pathosformel) and space (artworks and artists that travel). A study of movement uncovers multiple contradictions and possibilities in the history of art.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Planned to coincide with a special international exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum of works by the seventeenth century figure painter and print designer Chen Hongshou (1598-1652), this seminar will explore his art and cultural environment.  Along with close study of his original paintings, we will study his connections with printmaking and publishing, fiction and drama culture, and his literary, social and patronage networks.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Planned to coincide with a special international exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum of works by the seventeenth century figure painter and print designer Chen Hongshou (1598-1652), this seminar will explore his art and cultural environment.  Along with close study of his original paintings, we will study his connections with printmaking and publishing, fiction and drama culture, and his literary, social and patronage networks.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Planned to coincide with a special international exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum of works by the seventeenth century figure painter and print designer Chen Hongshou (1598-1652), this seminar will explore his art and cultural environment.  Along with close study of his original paintings, we will study his connections with printmaking and publishing, fiction and drama culture, and his literary, social and patronage networks.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 What does it mean to be an object?  Recent scholarship on the so-called material turn, including object-oriented-ontology, thing theory, and speculative realism likes to think it knows the answer. Yet as Frantz Fanon reminds us, objecthood is far more fraught and even violent than the simple imputation of agency.  This seminar explores the idea of objecthood in art history, critical theory, and literature.  Each week we will consider a different type of object, including paintings, photographs, furniture, props, and fetishes.  How might art and material culture help us understand the processes and histories of objectification, and conversely, how might the study of objecthood open new paths of art historical inquiry that account for rather than reproduce difference?  What are our ethical obligations to objects, and especially to our objects of study?Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 What does it mean to be an object?  Recent scholarship on the so-called material turn, including object-oriented-ontology, thing theory, and speculative realism likes to think it knows the answer. Yet as Frantz Fanon reminds us, objecthood is far more fraught and even violent than the simple imputation of agency.  This seminar explores the idea of objecthood in art history, critical theory, and literature.  Each week we will consider a different type of object, including paintings, photographs, furniture, props, and fetishes.  How might art and material culture help us understand the processes and histories of objectification, and conversely, how might the study of objecthood open new paths of art historical inquiry that account for rather than reproduce difference?  What are our ethical obligations to objects, and especially to our objects of study?Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 What does it mean to be an object?  Recent scholarship on the so-called material turn, including object-oriented-ontology, thing theory, and speculative realism likes to think it knows the answer. Yet as Frantz Fanon reminds us, objecthood is far more fraught and even violent than the simple imputation of agency.  This seminar explores the idea of objecthood in art history, critical theory, and literature.  Each week we will consider a different type of object, including paintings, photographs, furniture, props, and fetishes.  How might art and material culture help us understand the processes and histories of objectification, and conversely, how might the study of objecthood open new paths of art historical inquiry that account for rather than reproduce difference?  What are our ethical obligations to objects, and especially to our objects of study?Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The course focus on multimedia installation and live performances. The theme of the course will be an offshoot of the campus wide celebration of the 200th year anniversary of the ¿Frankenstein¿ novel written by Mary Shelly.  For the course the issues of advance medical science in the areas of artificial life forms, stem cell research, biological ethical questions, fictional and non fictional approaches and mythical creation stories will be included. Students will obtain an understanding of alternative ways to speak to issues using various art forms.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The course focus on multimedia installation and live performances. The theme of the course will be an offshoot of the campus wide celebration of the 200th year anniversary of the ¿Frankenstein¿ novel written by Mary Shelly.  For the course the issues of advance medical science in the areas of artificial life forms, stem cell research, biological ethical questions, fictional and non fictional approaches and mythical creation stories will be included. Students will obtain an understanding of alternative ways to speak to issues using various art forms.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The course focus on multimedia installation and live performances. The theme of the course will be an offshoot of the campus wide celebration of the 200th year anniversary of the ¿Frankenstein¿ novel written by Mary Shelly.  For the course the issues of advance medical science in the areas of artificial life forms, stem cell research, biological ethical questions, fictional and non fictional approaches and mythical creation stories will be included. Students will obtain an understanding of alternative ways to speak to issues using various art forms.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Using the concept behind the Post-Studio art practice as a starting point, this course will explore what it means to make art outside (in a landscape/cityscape, etc.) instead of inside the traditional Art Studio. With technology and equipment getting smaller and more handy and with the endless stream of apps and functions available on cell phones and other mobile devices, this course will furthermore investigate how this gives the artist the ability to work on the fly and produce most of their artwork on site. Given the interdisciplinary nature of this course, the students will be given 3 assignments throughout this course, where they will be introduced to sound, video, photography, and performance art. The goal of this course is to challenge the students to think differently about the use of their mobile devices and tablets and to be creative and experimental on the spot.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Using the concept behind the Post-Studio art practice as a starting point, this course will explore what it means to make art outside (in a landscape/cityscape, etc.) instead of inside the traditional Art Studio. With technology and equipment getting smaller and more handy and with the endless stream of apps and functions available on cell phones and other mobile devices, this course will furthermore investigate how this gives the artist the ability to work on the fly and produce most of their artwork on site. Given the interdisciplinary nature of this course, the students will be given 3 assignments throughout this course, where they will be introduced to sound, video, photography, and performance art. The goal of this course is to challenge the students to think differently about the use of their mobile devices and tablets and to be creative and experimental on the spot.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Using the concept behind the Post-Studio art practice as a starting point, this course will explore what it means to make art outside (in a landscape/cityscape, etc.) instead of inside the traditional Art Studio. With technology and equipment getting smaller and more handy and with the endless stream of apps and functions available on cell phones and other mobile devices, this course will furthermore investigate how this gives the artist the ability to work on the fly and produce most of their artwork on site. Given the interdisciplinary nature of this course, the students will be given 3 assignments throughout this course, where they will be introduced to sound, video, photography, and performance art. The goal of this course is to challenge the students to think differently about the use of their mobile devices and tablets and to be creative and experimental on the spot.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Functional anatomy and perspective as they apply to problems of drawing the form in space. Individual and group instruction as students work from still life set-ups, nature, and the model. Emphasis is on the development of critical skills and perceptual drawing techniques for those with little or no previous experience with pastels, inks, charcoal, conte, and pencil. Lectures alternate with studio work. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Functional anatomy and perspective as they apply to problems of drawing the form in space. Individual and group instruction as students work from still life set-ups, nature, and the model. Emphasis is on the development of critical skills and perceptual drawing techniques for those with little or no previous experience with pastels, inks, charcoal, conte, and pencil. Lectures alternate with studio work. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Functional anatomy and perspective as they apply to problems of drawing the form in space. Individual and group instruction as students work from still life set-ups, nature, and the model. Emphasis is on the development of critical skills and perceptual drawing techniques for those with little or no previous experience with pastels, inks, charcoal, conte, and pencil. Lectures alternate with studio work. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Surrounded by so many technologies for image production, why choose to take a course based on a style of painting developed over a hundred years ago? The standard answer to this question has changed remarkably little. Rather than answering that the camera cannot capture what the eye sees, we might instead respond that neither the computer, nor the camera, nor video, can reproduce in paint the subjective gaze of the contemporary viewer. Contained within this answer lies the trajectory for the class "PLEIN AIR PAINTING NOW!"nnIn this course students will be introduced to various water based media appropriate for plein air painting and learn various techniques and strategies for making paintings outdoors. The course will include the traditional discussions of brushes, paints, the different types of supports as well as easels, umbrellas and chairs. A broad variety of painting techniques will be demonstrated. We will set up in various locations around campus, paying particular attention to the specifics of the siteas this will serve as the jumping off point for discussion of the readings that form the second component of the class.nnPlease note that this class takes place outdoors. Plan accordingly, as we will be meeting in various locations around campus, and will be subject to inclement weather.Freshmen and Sophomores receive priority for enrollment. This is a designated CREATIVE EXPRESSIONS course.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Surrounded by so many technologies for image production, why choose to take a course based on a style of painting developed over a hundred years ago? The standard answer to this question has changed remarkably little. Rather than answering that the camera cannot capture what the eye sees, we might instead respond that neither the computer, nor the camera, nor video, can reproduce in paint the subjective gaze of the contemporary viewer. Contained within this answer lies the trajectory for the class "PLEIN AIR PAINTING NOW!"nnIn this course students will be introduced to various water based media appropriate for plein air painting and learn various techniques and strategies for making paintings outdoors. The course will include the traditional discussions of brushes, paints, the different types of supports as well as easels, umbrellas and chairs. A broad variety of painting techniques will be demonstrated. We will set up in various locations around campus, paying particular attention to the specifics of the siteas this will serve as the jumping off point for discussion of the readings that form the second component of the class.nnPlease note that this class takes place outdoors. Plan accordingly, as we will be meeting in various locations around campus, and will be subject to inclement weather.Freshmen and Sophomores receive priority for enrollment. This is a designated CREATIVE EXPRESSIONS course.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Surrounded by so many technologies for image production, why choose to take a course based on a style of painting developed over a hundred years ago? The standard answer to this question has changed remarkably little. Rather than answering that the camera cannot capture what the eye sees, we might instead respond that neither the computer, nor the camera, nor video, can reproduce in paint the subjective gaze of the contemporary viewer. Contained within this answer lies the trajectory for the class "PLEIN AIR PAINTING NOW!"nnIn this course students will be introduced to various water based media appropriate for plein air painting and learn various techniques and strategies for making paintings outdoors. The course will include the traditional discussions of brushes, paints, the different types of supports as well as easels, umbrellas and chairs. A broad variety of painting techniques will be demonstrated. We will set up in various locations around campus, paying particular attention to the specifics of the siteas this will serve as the jumping off point for discussion of the readings that form the second component of the class.nnPlease note that this class takes place outdoors. Plan accordingly, as we will be meeting in various locations around campus, and will be subject to inclement weather.Freshmen and Sophomores receive priority for enrollment. This is a designated CREATIVE EXPRESSIONS course.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Introduction to techniques, materials, and vocabulary in oil painting. Still life, landscape, and figure used as subject matter. Emphasis is on painting and drawing from life. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Introduction to techniques, materials, and vocabulary in oil painting. Still life, landscape, and figure used as subject matter. Emphasis is on painting and drawing from life. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Introduction to techniques, materials, and vocabulary in oil painting. Still life, landscape, and figure used as subject matter. Emphasis is on painting and drawing from life. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Techniques such as monotype, monoprint, photocopy transfers, linocut and woodcut, intaglio etching. Demonstrations of these techniques. Field trips to local print collections or print exhibitions. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Techniques such as monotype, monoprint, photocopy transfers, linocut and woodcut, intaglio etching. Demonstrations of these techniques. Field trips to local print collections or print exhibitions. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Techniques such as monotype, monoprint, photocopy transfers, linocut and woodcut, intaglio etching. Demonstrations of these techniques. Field trips to local print collections or print exhibitions. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This class explores experimental printmaking methods where digital and traditional practices collide. It focuses on the interchange between conventional and new methods of printmaking, and possibilities for the print beyond paper and the flat picture plane in contemporary art. Techniques will be demonstrated in class, and students will pursue projects using these techniques, developing their own conceptual interests. We will explore digital processes using large format printers, as well as digitally augmented traditional printmaking methods such as monoprints, collographs, woodblock and linocut, aided by dye sublimation, vinyl cutting, and 3-d printing. Students will have access to a wide array of both digital and traditional tools, and will develop projects using a combination of methods, resulting in a body of work. Discussions will address the expansive nature of contemporary fine art printmaking.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This class explores experimental printmaking methods where digital and traditional practices collide. It focuses on the interchange between conventional and new methods of printmaking, and possibilities for the print beyond paper and the flat picture plane in contemporary art. Techniques will be demonstrated in class, and students will pursue projects using these techniques, developing their own conceptual interests. We will explore digital processes using large format printers, as well as digitally augmented traditional printmaking methods such as monoprints, collographs, woodblock and linocut, aided by dye sublimation, vinyl cutting, and 3-d printing. Students will have access to a wide array of both digital and traditional tools, and will develop projects using a combination of methods, resulting in a body of work. Discussions will address the expansive nature of contemporary fine art printmaking.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This class explores experimental printmaking methods where digital and traditional practices collide. It focuses on the interchange between conventional and new methods of printmaking, and possibilities for the print beyond paper and the flat picture plane in contemporary art. Techniques will be demonstrated in class, and students will pursue projects using these techniques, developing their own conceptual interests. We will explore digital processes using large format printers, as well as digitally augmented traditional printmaking methods such as monoprints, collographs, woodblock and linocut, aided by dye sublimation, vinyl cutting, and 3-d printing. Students will have access to a wide array of both digital and traditional tools, and will develop projects using a combination of methods, resulting in a body of work. Discussions will address the expansive nature of contemporary fine art printmaking.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Traditional and non-traditional approaches to sculpture production through working with materials including wood, metal, and plaster. Conceptual and technical skills, and safe and appropriate use of tools and materials. Impact of material and technique upon form and content; the physical and expressive possibilities of diverse materials. Historical and contemporary forming methods provide a theoretical basis for studio work. Field trips; guest lecturers.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Traditional and non-traditional approaches to sculpture production through working with materials including wood, metal, and plaster. Conceptual and technical skills, and safe and appropriate use of tools and materials. Impact of material and technique upon form and content; the physical and expressive possibilities of diverse materials. Historical and contemporary forming methods provide a theoretical basis for studio work. Field trips; guest lecturers.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Traditional and non-traditional approaches to sculpture production through working with materials including wood, metal, and plaster. Conceptual and technical skills, and safe and appropriate use of tools and materials. Impact of material and technique upon form and content; the physical and expressive possibilities of diverse materials. Historical and contemporary forming methods provide a theoretical basis for studio work. Field trips; guest lecturers.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Contemporary production processes ¿ both manufacturing and media processes ¿ often span the digital and the physical. 3D Depth cameras can scan real world models or movements, which can be manipulated or adjusted digitally, then re-output to the physical world via a myriad of 2D and 3D printing and laser cutting technologies. Crowd sourced information is uploaded to social media, which in turn guides our physical meeting places. Google street-view maps our physical world, and augmented reality displays overlay it. How as artists or designers to we grapple with and use this digital / physical permeability to create new experiences and meaning for our current time? This introductory studio course explores various tool sets as well as artists working across these genres.  This course is a good baseline exploration for anyone interested in designing or making art with emerging contemporary tools.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Contemporary production processes ¿ both manufacturing and media processes ¿ often span the digital and the physical. 3D Depth cameras can scan real world models or movements, which can be manipulated or adjusted digitally, then re-output to the physical world via a myriad of 2D and 3D printing and laser cutting technologies. Crowd sourced information is uploaded to social media, which in turn guides our physical meeting places. Google street-view maps our physical world, and augmented reality displays overlay it. How as artists or designers to we grapple with and use this digital / physical permeability to create new experiences and meaning for our current time? This introductory studio course explores various tool sets as well as artists working across these genres.  This course is a good baseline exploration for anyone interested in designing or making art with emerging contemporary tools.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Contemporary production processes ¿ both manufacturing and media processes ¿ often span the digital and the physical. 3D Depth cameras can scan real world models or movements, which can be manipulated or adjusted digitally, then re-output to the physical world via a myriad of 2D and 3D printing and laser cutting technologies. Crowd sourced information is uploaded to social media, which in turn guides our physical meeting places. Google street-view maps our physical world, and augmented reality displays overlay it. How as artists or designers to we grapple with and use this digital / physical permeability to create new experiences and meaning for our current time? This introductory studio course explores various tool sets as well as artists working across these genres.  This course is a good baseline exploration for anyone interested in designing or making art with emerging contemporary tools.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Our computers, phones and devices ¿see¿ us predominately as fingers and single eyes staring at screens. What would happen if our technology acknowledged more of our rich physical presence and capabilities in its design? How have artists and designers used different sensing technologies to account for more of our embodied selves in their works? In this studio course we will explore various sensing technologies and design pieces that engage our whole selves. Interfaces explored will range from the practical to the poetic. Sensors may involve flex sensors, heat sensors, microphones and simple camera tracking technology. We will analyze different tools for their appropriateness for different tasks and extend them through our designs.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Our computers, phones and devices ¿see¿ us predominately as fingers and single eyes staring at screens. What would happen if our technology acknowledged more of our rich physical presence and capabilities in its design? How have artists and designers used different sensing technologies to account for more of our embodied selves in their works? In this studio course we will explore various sensing technologies and design pieces that engage our whole selves. Interfaces explored will range from the practical to the poetic. Sensors may involve flex sensors, heat sensors, microphones and simple camera tracking technology. We will analyze different tools for their appropriateness for different tasks and extend them through our designs.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Our computers, phones and devices ¿see¿ us predominately as fingers and single eyes staring at screens. What would happen if our technology acknowledged more of our rich physical presence and capabilities in its design? How have artists and designers used different sensing technologies to account for more of our embodied selves in their works? In this studio course we will explore various sensing technologies and design pieces that engage our whole selves. Interfaces explored will range from the practical to the poetic. Sensors may involve flex sensors, heat sensors, microphones and simple camera tracking technology. We will analyze different tools for their appropriateness for different tasks and extend them through our designs.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This studio course will engage coding practices as drawing tools. What makes a good algorithmic composition? How do we craft rule-sets and parameters to shape an interesting work? What changes if we conceive of still outputs, ongoing processes, or interactive processes as the "finished" work? We will look at the history of algorithmic drawing, including analog precedents like Sol LeWitt and other conceptual artists, along with current pioneers like John Simon Jr., Casey Reas, and LIA. Outputs will involve prints as well as screen-based works. Some basic coding experience is helpful, but not required. Assignments are based on conceptual principals that students can engage with at different coding skill levels. This is a good way for non CS students to explore coding practices as well as for CS students to hone their skills. We will work primarily in the free Processing software for our explorations.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This studio course will engage coding practices as drawing tools. What makes a good algorithmic composition? How do we craft rule-sets and parameters to shape an interesting work? What changes if we conceive of still outputs, ongoing processes, or interactive processes as the "finished" work? We will look at the history of algorithmic drawing, including analog precedents like Sol LeWitt and other conceptual artists, along with current pioneers like John Simon Jr., Casey Reas, and LIA. Outputs will involve prints as well as screen-based works. Some basic coding experience is helpful, but not required. Assignments are based on conceptual principals that students can engage with at different coding skill levels. This is a good way for non CS students to explore coding practices as well as for CS students to hone their skills. We will work primarily in the free Processing software for our explorations.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This studio course will engage coding practices as drawing tools. What makes a good algorithmic composition? How do we craft rule-sets and parameters to shape an interesting work? What changes if we conceive of still outputs, ongoing processes, or interactive processes as the "finished" work? We will look at the history of algorithmic drawing, including analog precedents like Sol LeWitt and other conceptual artists, along with current pioneers like John Simon Jr., Casey Reas, and LIA. Outputs will involve prints as well as screen-based works. Some basic coding experience is helpful, but not required. Assignments are based on conceptual principals that students can engage with at different coding skill levels. This is a good way for non CS students to explore coding practices as well as for CS students to hone their skills. We will work primarily in the free Processing software for our explorations.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Projects in animation techniques including flipbook, cutout/collage, stop-motion such as claymation, pixilation, and puppet animation, rotoscoping, and time-lapse. Films. Computers used as post-production tools, but course does not cover computer-generated animation. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Projects in animation techniques including flipbook, cutout/collage, stop-motion such as claymation, pixilation, and puppet animation, rotoscoping, and time-lapse. Films. Computers used as post-production tools, but course does not cover computer-generated animation. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Projects in animation techniques including flipbook, cutout/collage, stop-motion such as claymation, pixilation, and puppet animation, rotoscoping, and time-lapse. Films. Computers used as post-production tools, but course does not cover computer-generated animation. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through film and dark room instruction, students learn to use a SLR 35-mm camera and to operate manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed). They develop an awareness of light and its various properties and possibilities. Students become familiar with black and white darkroom techniques creating contact sheets and to evaluating prints, make corrections and re-print.  They acquire essential knowledge of historical and contemporary black and white art photography, including standards of quality and image sequencing. They get a basic sense of aesthetics and of the critical discourse that exists around the cultural significance of images.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through film and dark room instruction, students learn to use a SLR 35-mm camera and to operate manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed). They develop an awareness of light and its various properties and possibilities. Students become familiar with black and white darkroom techniques creating contact sheets and to evaluating prints, make corrections and re-print.  They acquire essential knowledge of historical and contemporary black and white art photography, including standards of quality and image sequencing. They get a basic sense of aesthetics and of the critical discourse that exists around the cultural significance of images.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through film and dark room instruction, students learn to use a SLR 35-mm camera and to operate manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed). They develop an awareness of light and its various properties and possibilities. Students become familiar with black and white darkroom techniques creating contact sheets and to evaluating prints, make corrections and re-print.  They acquire essential knowledge of historical and contemporary black and white art photography, including standards of quality and image sequencing. They get a basic sense of aesthetics and of the critical discourse that exists around the cultural significance of images.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through digital instruction, students learn to use a DSLR camera and to operate manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed, ISO, color temp/white balance). They become familiar with basic scanning techniques (appropriated images, not negatives) on a flatbed scanner, and basic digital printing (in color). They learn basic file management as well as the use of Adobe Lightroom software. They are taught to operate 17¿-wide Epson digital printers, to print digital proof sheets, and to evaluate prints, correct files and re-print. Students acquire an essential knowledge of contemporary art photography, including standards of quality and image sequencing. They get a basic sense of aesthetics and of the critical discourse that exists around the cultural significance of images.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through digital instruction, students learn to use a DSLR camera and to operate manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed, ISO, color temp/white balance). They become familiar with basic scanning techniques (appropriated images, not negatives) on a flatbed scanner, and basic digital printing (in color). They learn basic file management as well as the use of Adobe Lightroom software. They are taught to operate 17¿-wide Epson digital printers, to print digital proof sheets, and to evaluate prints, correct files and re-print. Students acquire an essential knowledge of contemporary art photography, including standards of quality and image sequencing. They get a basic sense of aesthetics and of the critical discourse that exists around the cultural significance of images.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through digital instruction, students learn to use a DSLR camera and to operate manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed, ISO, color temp/white balance). They become familiar with basic scanning techniques (appropriated images, not negatives) on a flatbed scanner, and basic digital printing (in color). They learn basic file management as well as the use of Adobe Lightroom software. They are taught to operate 17¿-wide Epson digital printers, to print digital proof sheets, and to evaluate prints, correct files and re-print. Students acquire an essential knowledge of contemporary art photography, including standards of quality and image sequencing. They get a basic sense of aesthetics and of the critical discourse that exists around the cultural significance of images.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The course combines the critical analysis of cell phone photography with the creation of photographic art works that explore this specific medium's experimental, social and documentary potential. The increasing ubiquity of cell phone photography has had a widespread impact on the practice of photography as an art form. We will consider and discuss the ways in which the platforms of cell phone photography (Instagram, Snapchat) are democratizing image-making and transforming notions of authorship and subjectivity to an unprecedented extent, but also how the use of new technological tools help expand notions of creativity and aesthetic standards.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The course combines the critical analysis of cell phone photography with the creation of photographic art works that explore this specific medium's experimental, social and documentary potential. The increasing ubiquity of cell phone photography has had a widespread impact on the practice of photography as an art form. We will consider and discuss the ways in which the platforms of cell phone photography (Instagram, Snapchat) are democratizing image-making and transforming notions of authorship and subjectivity to an unprecedented extent, but also how the use of new technological tools help expand notions of creativity and aesthetic standards.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The course combines the critical analysis of cell phone photography with the creation of photographic art works that explore this specific medium's experimental, social and documentary potential. The increasing ubiquity of cell phone photography has had a widespread impact on the practice of photography as an art form. We will consider and discuss the ways in which the platforms of cell phone photography (Instagram, Snapchat) are democratizing image-making and transforming notions of authorship and subjectivity to an unprecedented extent, but also how the use of new technological tools help expand notions of creativity and aesthetic standards.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students create experimental video works. Conceptual, formal, and performance-based approaches to the medium. The history of video art since the 70s and its influences including experimental film, television, minimalism, conceptual art, and performance and electronic art. Topics: camera technique, lighting, sound design, found footage, cinematic conventions, and nonlinear digital editing. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students create experimental video works. Conceptual, formal, and performance-based approaches to the medium. The history of video art since the 70s and its influences including experimental film, television, minimalism, conceptual art, and performance and electronic art. Topics: camera technique, lighting, sound design, found footage, cinematic conventions, and nonlinear digital editing. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students create experimental video works. Conceptual, formal, and performance-based approaches to the medium. The history of video art since the 70s and its influences including experimental film, television, minimalism, conceptual art, and performance and electronic art. Topics: camera technique, lighting, sound design, found footage, cinematic conventions, and nonlinear digital editing. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Contemporary electronic art focusing on digital media. Students create works exploring two- and three-dimensional, and time-based uses of the computer in fine art. History and theoretical underpinnings. Common discourse and informative resources for material and inspiration. Topics: imaging and sound software, web art, and rethinking the comptuer as interface and object. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Contemporary electronic art focusing on digital media. Students create works exploring two- and three-dimensional, and time-based uses of the computer in fine art. History and theoretical underpinnings. Common discourse and informative resources for material and inspiration. Topics: imaging and sound software, web art, and rethinking the comptuer as interface and object. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Contemporary electronic art focusing on digital media. Students create works exploring two- and three-dimensional, and time-based uses of the computer in fine art. History and theoretical underpinnings. Common discourse and informative resources for material and inspiration. Topics: imaging and sound software, web art, and rethinking the comptuer as interface and object. (lower level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The focus of this class is to create an artwork that explores the relationship between creators and the `monsters¿ they create.  The course explores the role of the artist as an innovator, experimenter, inventor, entrepreneur, and creative researcher. Students will perform a robust dissection and mapping of a modern technology and then emerge an artwork incorporating the constituent parts and informed by the dissection.  n nAlmost anything that we create can become monstrous.  One hopes for the best, but never knows just how it might play out. The story of humankind is partially a history of the twists and turns posited by technological innovation. The complex relationship between intention and context sometimes converge in mysterious and unpredictable ways resulting inn corruption in creative strategies, machines, architecture, designs and creative expression.  n nThee class is inspired by the classic Gothic literature, Frankenstein, by Marry Shelly., a tragic story about Victor Frankenstein¿s failure to accept responsibility for the consequences of bringing new life into the world.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The focus of this class is to create an artwork that explores the relationship between creators and the `monsters¿ they create.  The course explores the role of the artist as an innovator, experimenter, inventor, entrepreneur, and creative researcher. Students will perform a robust dissection and mapping of a modern technology and then emerge an artwork incorporating the constituent parts and informed by the dissection.  n nAlmost anything that we create can become monstrous.  One hopes for the best, but never knows just how it might play out. The story of humankind is partially a history of the twists and turns posited by technological innovation. The complex relationship between intention and context sometimes converge in mysterious and unpredictable ways resulting inn corruption in creative strategies, machines, architecture, designs and creative expression.  n nThee class is inspired by the classic Gothic literature, Frankenstein, by Marry Shelly., a tragic story about Victor Frankenstein¿s failure to accept responsibility for the consequences of bringing new life into the world.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The focus of this class is to create an artwork that explores the relationship between creators and the `monsters¿ they create.  The course explores the role of the artist as an innovator, experimenter, inventor, entrepreneur, and creative researcher. Students will perform a robust dissection and mapping of a modern technology and then emerge an artwork incorporating the constituent parts and informed by the dissection.  n nAlmost anything that we create can become monstrous.  One hopes for the best, but never knows just how it might play out. The story of humankind is partially a history of the twists and turns posited by technological innovation. The complex relationship between intention and context sometimes converge in mysterious and unpredictable ways resulting inn corruption in creative strategies, machines, architecture, designs and creative expression.  n nThee class is inspired by the classic Gothic literature, Frankenstein, by Marry Shelly., a tragic story about Victor Frankenstein¿s failure to accept responsibility for the consequences of bringing new life into the world.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through experience-based exercises this class will build upon students understanding of conceptual art. Student will be guided in the exploration of their ideas beginning with the parameters set by the camera and later by specific place(s) and space(s) in and around campus. Throughout the quarter students will learn to process and poetically interpret their ideas as well time, space, the self and current sociopolitical issues in a manner that best suites each idea. In class activities will address curiosities to invoke a deeper investigation of each student's relationship to art and/or their individual field of study. This seminar will include a survey of art historical examples to help stimulate ideas, discussions and activities. Visiting artists as well as off-campus studio visits will further inform the course.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through experience-based exercises this class will build upon students understanding of conceptual art. Student will be guided in the exploration of their ideas beginning with the parameters set by the camera and later by specific place(s) and space(s) in and around campus. Throughout the quarter students will learn to process and poetically interpret their ideas as well time, space, the self and current sociopolitical issues in a manner that best suites each idea. In class activities will address curiosities to invoke a deeper investigation of each student's relationship to art and/or their individual field of study. This seminar will include a survey of art historical examples to help stimulate ideas, discussions and activities. Visiting artists as well as off-campus studio visits will further inform the course.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Through experience-based exercises this class will build upon students understanding of conceptual art. Student will be guided in the exploration of their ideas beginning with the parameters set by the camera and later by specific place(s) and space(s) in and around campus. Throughout the quarter students will learn to process and poetically interpret their ideas as well time, space, the self and current sociopolitical issues in a manner that best suites each idea. In class activities will address curiosities to invoke a deeper investigation of each student's relationship to art and/or their individual field of study. This seminar will include a survey of art historical examples to help stimulate ideas, discussions and activities. Visiting artists as well as off-campus studio visits will further inform the course.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course is designed to develop diversity of concepts and strategies within the student's artistic practice.  The course includes a survey of artists using different media taught in the department's studio program such as painting, drawing, video and digital art, printmaking, photography, and sculpture. This seminar-style class seeks to expand the artistic practice outside of traditional media boundaries and focuses on the translation of concepts across various media. Priority to Art Practice majors and minors. (upper level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course is designed to develop diversity of concepts and strategies within the student's artistic practice.  The course includes a survey of artists using different media taught in the department's studio program such as painting, drawing, video and digital art, printmaking, photography, and sculpture. This seminar-style class seeks to expand the artistic practice outside of traditional media boundaries and focuses on the translation of concepts across various media. Priority to Art Practice majors and minors. (upper level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course is designed to develop diversity of concepts and strategies within the student's artistic practice.  The course includes a survey of artists using different media taught in the department's studio program such as painting, drawing, video and digital art, printmaking, photography, and sculpture. This seminar-style class seeks to expand the artistic practice outside of traditional media boundaries and focuses on the translation of concepts across various media. Priority to Art Practice majors and minors. (upper level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Builds upon 151. Installation and non-studio pieces. Impact of material and technique upon form and content; the physical and expressive possibilities of diverse materials. Historical and contemporary forming methods provide a theoretical basis for the studio work. Field trips; guest lecturers. (upper level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Builds upon 151. Installation and non-studio pieces. Impact of material and technique upon form and content; the physical and expressive possibilities of diverse materials. Historical and contemporary forming methods provide a theoretical basis for the studio work. Field trips; guest lecturers. (upper level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Builds upon 151. Installation and non-studio pieces. Impact of material and technique upon form and content; the physical and expressive possibilities of diverse materials. Historical and contemporary forming methods provide a theoretical basis for the studio work. Field trips; guest lecturers. (upper level)Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The first decade and a half of the 21st century have been transformative for performance art. On the one hand, it brought an unprecedented cultural acceptance of this art form, which is now featured in most prestigious museums and art festivals; on the other, the most recent generation of performance artists is showing a great awareness of the historicity and complexity of this form. In this class, we will try to recognize and investigate these and other prominent features of performance art produced since the turn of the millennium. We will use as our primary case studies performances that will be featured in the series Vital Signs: Contemporary Performance Art Series, hosted by TAPS in 2017-2018. The primary objective of the series is to highlight and showcase underrepresented performance forms such as experimental performance art, durational art, and body art, among others, by artists from communities that remain invisible or underrepresented in mainstream performing arts. The series is curated by the Los Angeles-based artist Cassils, who has been listed by the Huffington Post as 'one of ten transgender artists who are changing the landscape of contemporary art' and has achieved international recognition for a rigorous engagement with the body as a form of social sculpture. Cassils's curatorial vision is to present established performance artists alongside emerging artists. Each quarter, a pair of artists will visit Stanford for two days (Thursday-Friday). On day one of their visit they will offer a workshop or a public performance, and on the second day they will engage in a public dialogue. The class will meet each quarter for three weeks: before, during, and after the artists' visit. This way, the students will have an opportunity to prepare for the visit, engage with the visiting artists, and reflect on their work. They will receive their grades upon completion of the class, in the spring of 2018.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The first decade and a half of the 21st century have been transformative for performance art. On the one hand, it brought an unprecedented cultural acceptance of this art form, which is now featured in most prestigious museums and art festivals; on the other, the most recent generation of performance artists is showing a great awareness of the historicity and complexity of this form. In this class, we will try to recognize and investigate these and other prominent features of performance art produced since the turn of the millennium. We will use as our primary case studies performances that will be featured in the series Vital Signs: Contemporary Performance Art Series, hosted by TAPS in 2017-2018. The primary objective of the series is to highlight and showcase underrepresented performance forms such as experimental performance art, durational art, and body art, among others, by artists from communities that remain invisible or underrepresented in mainstream performing arts. The series is curated by the Los Angeles-based artist Cassils, who has been listed by the Huffington Post as 'one of ten transgender artists who are changing the landscape of contemporary art' and has achieved international recognition for a rigorous engagement with the body as a form of social sculpture. Cassils's curatorial vision is to present established performance artists alongside emerging artists. Each quarter, a pair of artists will visit Stanford for two days (Thursday-Friday). On day one of their visit they will offer a workshop or a public performance, and on the second day they will engage in a public dialogue. The class will meet each quarter for three weeks: before, during, and after the artists' visit. This way, the students will have an opportunity to prepare for the visit, engage with the visiting artists, and reflect on their work. They will receive their grades upon completion of the class, in the spring of 2018.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The first decade and a half of the 21st century have been transformative for performance art. On the one hand, it brought an unprecedented cultural acceptance of this art form, which is now featured in most prestigious museums and art festivals; on the other, the most recent generation of performance artists is showing a great awareness of the historicity and complexity of this form. In this class, we will try to recognize and investigate these and other prominent features of performance art produced since the turn of the millennium. We will use as our primary case studies performances that will be featured in the series Vital Signs: Contemporary Performance Art Series, hosted by TAPS in 2017-2018. The primary objective of the series is to highlight and showcase underrepresented performance forms such as experimental performance art, durational art, and body art, among others, by artists from communities that remain invisible or underrepresented in mainstream performing arts. The series is curated by the Los Angeles-based artist Cassils, who has been listed by the Huffington Post as 'one of ten transgender artists who are changing the landscape of contemporary art' and has achieved international recognition for a rigorous engagement with the body as a form of social sculpture. Cassils's curatorial vision is to present established performance artists alongside emerging artists. Each quarter, a pair of artists will visit Stanford for two days (Thursday-Friday). On day one of their visit they will offer a workshop or a public performance, and on the second day they will engage in a public dialogue. The class will meet each quarter for three weeks: before, during, and after the artists' visit. This way, the students will have an opportunity to prepare for the visit, engage with the visiting artists, and reflect on their work. They will receive their grades upon completion of the class, in the spring of 2018.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students continue to use DLSR cameras, with an ongoing emphasis on operating manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed, ISO, color temp/ white balance). They are taught intermediate-level digital printing (in color) using large-format printers. They continue to work with Lightroom as a file management system and are introduced to Photoshop. Students gain a deeper insight into and stronger grasp of practices in contemporary digital photography, with a continuing focus on the importance of photo editing/selection and sequencing, as well as questions around the conceptual and practical implications and limits of photographic images. Prerequisite: ARTSTUDI 171 or equivalent.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students continue to use DLSR cameras, with an ongoing emphasis on operating manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed, ISO, color temp/ white balance). They are taught intermediate-level digital printing (in color) using large-format printers. They continue to work with Lightroom as a file management system and are introduced to Photoshop. Students gain a deeper insight into and stronger grasp of practices in contemporary digital photography, with a continuing focus on the importance of photo editing/selection and sequencing, as well as questions around the conceptual and practical implications and limits of photographic images. Prerequisite: ARTSTUDI 171 or equivalent.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students continue to use DLSR cameras, with an ongoing emphasis on operating manual settings (focus, aperture, shutter speed, ISO, color temp/ white balance). They are taught intermediate-level digital printing (in color) using large-format printers. They continue to work with Lightroom as a file management system and are introduced to Photoshop. Students gain a deeper insight into and stronger grasp of practices in contemporary digital photography, with a continuing focus on the importance of photo editing/selection and sequencing, as well as questions around the conceptual and practical implications and limits of photographic images. Prerequisite: ARTSTUDI 171 or equivalent.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course explores the historical development and artistic potential of photography books. Students will learn about book structures, signatures, binding styles, printing methods and publication platforms (from conventional print to web-based). They will focus on how to group and sequence photographic images to produce a coherent, thematically organized body of work, and examine the creative possibilities of integrating image and text. Students will have access to numerous campus resources to do research and develop ideas, including the extensive photo book collections of the Bowes Art & Architecture Library and the Cantor Museum. They will have to execute a photographic project of their own design and produce a hand-made book. Prerequisite: ARTSTUDI 170, ARTSTUDI 171, or equivalent.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course explores the historical development and artistic potential of photography books. Students will learn about book structures, signatures, binding styles, printing methods and publication platforms (from conventional print to web-based). They will focus on how to group and sequence photographic images to produce a coherent, thematically organized body of work, and examine the creative possibilities of integrating image and text. Students will have access to numerous campus resources to do research and develop ideas, including the extensive photo book collections of the Bowes Art & Architecture Library and the Cantor Museum. They will have to execute a photographic project of their own design and produce a hand-made book. Prerequisite: ARTSTUDI 170, ARTSTUDI 171, or equivalent.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course explores the historical development and artistic potential of photography books. Students will learn about book structures, signatures, binding styles, printing methods and publication platforms (from conventional print to web-based). They will focus on how to group and sequence photographic images to produce a coherent, thematically organized body of work, and examine the creative possibilities of integrating image and text. Students will have access to numerous campus resources to do research and develop ideas, including the extensive photo book collections of the Bowes Art & Architecture Library and the Cantor Museum. They will have to execute a photographic project of their own design and produce a hand-made book. Prerequisite: ARTSTUDI 170, ARTSTUDI 171, or equivalent.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students construct an individual tutorial with an instructor selected from the studio art faculty, including visiting artists. The student must take tutorials with at least three different faculty members during the six-quarter program.  Prior approval of advisor is required.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students construct an individual tutorial with an instructor selected from the studio art faculty, including visiting artists. The student must take tutorials with at least three different faculty members during the six-quarter program.  Prior approval of advisor is required.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Students construct an individual tutorial with an instructor selected from the studio art faculty, including visiting artists. The student must take tutorials with at least three different faculty members during the six-quarter program.  Prior approval of advisor is required.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Weekly seminars, studio practice, and individual tutorials. Student work is critiqued on issues of identity, presentation, and the development of coherent critical language. May be repeated for credit. Restricted to M.F.A. studio students only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Weekly seminars, studio practice, and individual tutorials. Student work is critiqued on issues of identity, presentation, and the development of coherent critical language. May be repeated for credit. Restricted to M.F.A. studio students only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Weekly seminars, studio practice, and individual tutorials. Student work is critiqued on issues of identity, presentation, and the development of coherent critical language. May be repeated for credit. Restricted to M.F.A. studio students only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Weekly seminars, studio practice, and individual tutorials. Modes of conceptualization to broaden the base of cognitive and generative processes. May be repeated for credit. Restricted to M.F.A. studio students only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Weekly seminars, studio practice, and individual tutorials. Modes of conceptualization to broaden the base of cognitive and generative processes. May be repeated for credit. Restricted to M.F.A. studio students only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Weekly seminars, studio practice, and individual tutorials. Modes of conceptualization to broaden the base of cognitive and generative processes. May be repeated for credit. Restricted to M.F.A. studio students only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Analysis of screenplay and film from the writer's perspective, with focus on ideation, structure, and dramatic tension in narrative features. Sources include screenplays and screenings.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Analysis of screenplay and film from the writer's perspective, with focus on ideation, structure, and dramatic tension in narrative features. Sources include screenplays and screenings.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Analysis of screenplay and film from the writer's perspective, with focus on ideation, structure, and dramatic tension in narrative features. Sources include screenplays and screenings.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Despite the rise of emerging forms like two-minute YouTube videos, six second Vines, or interactive storytelling modules, many core principles of visual storytelling remain unchanged. In this hands-on film production class students will learn a broad set of filmmaking fundamentals (basic history, theory, and practice) and will apply them creating film projects using tools such as iPhones, consumer cameras and FCPX.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Despite the rise of emerging forms like two-minute YouTube videos, six second Vines, or interactive storytelling modules, many core principles of visual storytelling remain unchanged. In this hands-on film production class students will learn a broad set of filmmaking fundamentals (basic history, theory, and practice) and will apply them creating film projects using tools such as iPhones, consumer cameras and FCPX.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Despite the rise of emerging forms like two-minute YouTube videos, six second Vines, or interactive storytelling modules, many core principles of visual storytelling remain unchanged. In this hands-on film production class students will learn a broad set of filmmaking fundamentals (basic history, theory, and practice) and will apply them creating film projects using tools such as iPhones, consumer cameras and FCPX.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Hands-on. Techniques of film and video making including conceptualization, visualization, story structure, cinematography, sound recording, and editing. Enrollment limited to 12 students. Priority to junior/senior Film & Media Studies majors.Admission determined on the first day of class.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Hands-on. Techniques of film and video making including conceptualization, visualization, story structure, cinematography, sound recording, and editing. Enrollment limited to 12 students. Priority to junior/senior Film & Media Studies majors.Admission determined on the first day of class.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Hands-on. Techniques of film and video making including conceptualization, visualization, story structure, cinematography, sound recording, and editing. Enrollment limited to 12 students. Priority to junior/senior Film & Media Studies majors.Admission determined on the first day of class.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Analysis of screenplay and film from the writer's perspective, with focus on ideation, structure, and dramatic tension in narrative features. Sources include screenplays and screenings.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Analysis of screenplay and film from the writer's perspective, with focus on ideation, structure, and dramatic tension in narrative features. Sources include screenplays and screenings.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Analysis of screenplay and film from the writer's perspective, with focus on ideation, structure, and dramatic tension in narrative features. Sources include screenplays and screenings.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A. documentary students. Emphasis is on the development of the research, conceptualization, visualization, and preproduction skills required for nonfiction filmmaking. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A. documentary students. Emphasis is on the development of the research, conceptualization, visualization, and preproduction skills required for nonfiction filmmaking. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A. documentary students. Emphasis is on the development of the research, conceptualization, visualization, and preproduction skills required for nonfiction filmmaking. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A documentary students. 16mm production techniques and concepts. Final project is a short black-and-white film with multitrack sound design. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A documentary students. 16mm production techniques and concepts. Final project is a short black-and-white film with multitrack sound design. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A documentary students. 16mm production techniques and concepts. Final project is a short black-and-white film with multitrack sound design. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A. documentary students. Advanced producing principles through the preproduction of the M.F.A. thesis project, including development of a professional film proposal. Practical training in fundraising. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A. documentary students. Advanced producing principles through the preproduction of the M.F.A. thesis project, including development of a professional film proposal. Practical training in fundraising. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Restricted to M.F.A. documentary students. Advanced producing principles through the preproduction of the M.F.A. thesis project, including development of a professional film proposal. Practical training in fundraising. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From cinema's precursors to the advent of synchronized sound.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From cinema's precursors to the advent of synchronized sound.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From cinema's precursors to the advent of synchronized sound.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Women as objects and subjects of the voyeuristic gaze inherent to cinema. The myth of the feminine idol in French films in historical and cultural context since the New Wave until now. The mythology of stars as the imaginary vehicle that helped France to change from traditional society to modern, culturally mixed nation. The evolution of female characters, roles, actresses, directors in the film industry. Filmmakers include Vadim, Truffaut, Varda, Godard, Ozon, Colline Serreau, Tonie Marshall, Maïwen. Discussion in English; films in French with English subtitles. 3 units, 4 units or 5 units.nNOTE: FILMSTUD students must take this course for 3 units only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Women as objects and subjects of the voyeuristic gaze inherent to cinema. The myth of the feminine idol in French films in historical and cultural context since the New Wave until now. The mythology of stars as the imaginary vehicle that helped France to change from traditional society to modern, culturally mixed nation. The evolution of female characters, roles, actresses, directors in the film industry. Filmmakers include Vadim, Truffaut, Varda, Godard, Ozon, Colline Serreau, Tonie Marshall, Maïwen. Discussion in English; films in French with English subtitles. 3 units, 4 units or 5 units.nNOTE: FILMSTUD students must take this course for 3 units only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Women as objects and subjects of the voyeuristic gaze inherent to cinema. The myth of the feminine idol in French films in historical and cultural context since the New Wave until now. The mythology of stars as the imaginary vehicle that helped France to change from traditional society to modern, culturally mixed nation. The evolution of female characters, roles, actresses, directors in the film industry. Filmmakers include Vadim, Truffaut, Varda, Godard, Ozon, Colline Serreau, Tonie Marshall, Maïwen. Discussion in English; films in French with English subtitles. 3 units, 4 units or 5 units.nNOTE: FILMSTUD students must take this course for 3 units only.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The human simulacrum has a long history in mythology, fairy tales and children¿s stories, as well as in the genres of horror and science fiction. This course explores synthetic human narratives in the cinema. Stories of artificially created life, living statues, automata, body snatchers, robots, cyborgs and electronic simulations all direct our attention to our assumed definitions of the human.The fantasies and anxieties that undergird these stories engage with such issues as labor, gender, sexuality, death, emotion, rationality, embodiment, consumerism, reproductive technologies, and power relations. Attention will also be given the relation of cinema¿s human simulacra to changing cinematic technologies. Films will include Metropolis, Pinocchio, Robocop, Bride of Frankenstein, The Golem, A.I., My Fair Lady, Her, Blade Runner, and the HBO iteration of Westworld. Readings will include essays, as well as some fiction and possibly comics.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The human simulacrum has a long history in mythology, fairy tales and children¿s stories, as well as in the genres of horror and science fiction. This course explores synthetic human narratives in the cinema. Stories of artificially created life, living statues, automata, body snatchers, robots, cyborgs and electronic simulations all direct our attention to our assumed definitions of the human.The fantasies and anxieties that undergird these stories engage with such issues as labor, gender, sexuality, death, emotion, rationality, embodiment, consumerism, reproductive technologies, and power relations. Attention will also be given the relation of cinema¿s human simulacra to changing cinematic technologies. Films will include Metropolis, Pinocchio, Robocop, Bride of Frankenstein, The Golem, A.I., My Fair Lady, Her, Blade Runner, and the HBO iteration of Westworld. Readings will include essays, as well as some fiction and possibly comics.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The human simulacrum has a long history in mythology, fairy tales and children¿s stories, as well as in the genres of horror and science fiction. This course explores synthetic human narratives in the cinema. Stories of artificially created life, living statues, automata, body snatchers, robots, cyborgs and electronic simulations all direct our attention to our assumed definitions of the human.The fantasies and anxieties that undergird these stories engage with such issues as labor, gender, sexuality, death, emotion, rationality, embodiment, consumerism, reproductive technologies, and power relations. Attention will also be given the relation of cinema¿s human simulacra to changing cinematic technologies. Films will include Metropolis, Pinocchio, Robocop, Bride of Frankenstein, The Golem, A.I., My Fair Lady, Her, Blade Runner, and the HBO iteration of Westworld. Readings will include essays, as well as some fiction and possibly comics.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The fantasy of an image coming to life is ancient, but not until the cinema was this fantasy actualized. The history of the movies begins with optical toys, and contemporary cinema is dominated by films that rely on computer animation. This course considers the underlying fantasies of animation in art and lit, its phenomenologies, its relation to the uncanny, its status as a pure cinema, and its place in film theory. Different modes of production and style to be explored include realist animation, abstract animation; animistic animation; animated drawings, objects, and puppets; CGI, motion capture, and live/animation hybrids.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The fantasy of an image coming to life is ancient, but not until the cinema was this fantasy actualized. The history of the movies begins with optical toys, and contemporary cinema is dominated by films that rely on computer animation. This course considers the underlying fantasies of animation in art and lit, its phenomenologies, its relation to the uncanny, its status as a pure cinema, and its place in film theory. Different modes of production and style to be explored include realist animation, abstract animation; animistic animation; animated drawings, objects, and puppets; CGI, motion capture, and live/animation hybrids.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The fantasy of an image coming to life is ancient, but not until the cinema was this fantasy actualized. The history of the movies begins with optical toys, and contemporary cinema is dominated by films that rely on computer animation. This course considers the underlying fantasies of animation in art and lit, its phenomenologies, its relation to the uncanny, its status as a pure cinema, and its place in film theory. Different modes of production and style to be explored include realist animation, abstract animation; animistic animation; animated drawings, objects, and puppets; CGI, motion capture, and live/animation hybrids.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This is an introductory-level course about the cinema as a global language. We will undertake a comparative study of select historical and contemporary aspects of international cinema, and explore a range of themes pertaining to the social, cultural, and political diversity of the world. A cross-regional thematic emphasis and inter-textual methods of narrative and aesthetic analysis, will ground our discussion of films from Italy, Japan, United States, India, China, France, Brazil, Nigeria, Russia, Iran, Mexico, and a number of other countries. Particular emphasis will be placed on the multi-cultural character and the regional specificities of the cinema as a "universal language" and an inclusive "relational network."nnThere are no prerequisites for this class. It is open to all students; non-majors welcome.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This is an introductory-level course about the cinema as a global language. We will undertake a comparative study of select historical and contemporary aspects of international cinema, and explore a range of themes pertaining to the social, cultural, and political diversity of the world. A cross-regional thematic emphasis and inter-textual methods of narrative and aesthetic analysis, will ground our discussion of films from Italy, Japan, United States, India, China, France, Brazil, Nigeria, Russia, Iran, Mexico, and a number of other countries. Particular emphasis will be placed on the multi-cultural character and the regional specificities of the cinema as a "universal language" and an inclusive "relational network."nnThere are no prerequisites for this class. It is open to all students; non-majors welcome.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This is an introductory-level course about the cinema as a global language. We will undertake a comparative study of select historical and contemporary aspects of international cinema, and explore a range of themes pertaining to the social, cultural, and political diversity of the world. A cross-regional thematic emphasis and inter-textual methods of narrative and aesthetic analysis, will ground our discussion of films from Italy, Japan, United States, India, China, France, Brazil, Nigeria, Russia, Iran, Mexico, and a number of other countries. Particular emphasis will be placed on the multi-cultural character and the regional specificities of the cinema as a "universal language" and an inclusive "relational network."nnThere are no prerequisites for this class. It is open to all students; non-majors welcome.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From 1945 to the mid-80s, emphasizing Polish, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and Yugoslav contexts. The relationship between art and politics; postwar establishment of film industries; and emergence of national film movements such as the Polish school, Czech new wave, and new Yugoslav film. Thematic and aesthetic preoccupations of filmmakers such as Wajda, Jancso, Forman, and Kusturica. Permission of instructor required prior to the first day of classes.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From 1945 to the mid-80s, emphasizing Polish, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and Yugoslav contexts. The relationship between art and politics; postwar establishment of film industries; and emergence of national film movements such as the Polish school, Czech new wave, and new Yugoslav film. Thematic and aesthetic preoccupations of filmmakers such as Wajda, Jancso, Forman, and Kusturica. Permission of instructor required prior to the first day of classes.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From 1945 to the mid-80s, emphasizing Polish, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and Yugoslav contexts. The relationship between art and politics; postwar establishment of film industries; and emergence of national film movements such as the Polish school, Czech new wave, and new Yugoslav film. Thematic and aesthetic preoccupations of filmmakers such as Wajda, Jancso, Forman, and Kusturica. Permission of instructor required prior to the first day of classes.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From cinema's precursors to the advent of synchronized sound.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From cinema's precursors to the advent of synchronized sound.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From cinema's precursors to the advent of synchronized sound.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The human simulacrum has a long history in mythology, fairy tales and children¿s stories, as well as in the genres of horror and science fiction. This course explores synthetic human narratives in the cinema. Stories of artificially created life, living statues, automata, body snatchers, robots, cyborgs and electronic simulations all direct our attention to our assumed definitions of the human.The fantasies and anxieties that undergird these stories engage with such issues as labor, gender, sexuality, death, emotion, rationality, embodiment, consumerism, reproductive technologies, and power relations. Attention will also be given the relation of cinema¿s human simulacra to changing cinematic technologies. Films will include Metropolis, Pinocchio, Robocop, Bride of Frankenstein, The Golem, A.I., My Fair Lady, Her, Blade Runner, and the HBO iteration of Westworld. Readings will include essays, as well as some fiction and possibly comics.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The human simulacrum has a long history in mythology, fairy tales and children¿s stories, as well as in the genres of horror and science fiction. This course explores synthetic human narratives in the cinema. Stories of artificially created life, living statues, automata, body snatchers, robots, cyborgs and electronic simulations all direct our attention to our assumed definitions of the human.The fantasies and anxieties that undergird these stories engage with such issues as labor, gender, sexuality, death, emotion, rationality, embodiment, consumerism, reproductive technologies, and power relations. Attention will also be given the relation of cinema¿s human simulacra to changing cinematic technologies. Films will include Metropolis, Pinocchio, Robocop, Bride of Frankenstein, The Golem, A.I., My Fair Lady, Her, Blade Runner, and the HBO iteration of Westworld. Readings will include essays, as well as some fiction and possibly comics.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The human simulacrum has a long history in mythology, fairy tales and children¿s stories, as well as in the genres of horror and science fiction. This course explores synthetic human narratives in the cinema. Stories of artificially created life, living statues, automata, body snatchers, robots, cyborgs and electronic simulations all direct our attention to our assumed definitions of the human.The fantasies and anxieties that undergird these stories engage with such issues as labor, gender, sexuality, death, emotion, rationality, embodiment, consumerism, reproductive technologies, and power relations. Attention will also be given the relation of cinema¿s human simulacra to changing cinematic technologies. Films will include Metropolis, Pinocchio, Robocop, Bride of Frankenstein, The Golem, A.I., My Fair Lady, Her, Blade Runner, and the HBO iteration of Westworld. Readings will include essays, as well as some fiction and possibly comics.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The fantasy of an image coming to life is ancient, but not until the cinema was this fantasy actualized. The history of the movies begins with optical toys, and contemporary cinema is dominated by films that rely on computer animation. This course considers the underlying fantasies of animation in art and lit, its phenomenologies, its relation to the uncanny, its status as a pure cinema, and its place in film theory. Different modes of production and style to be explored include realist animation, abstract animation; animistic animation; animated drawings, objects, and puppets; CGI, motion capture, and live/animation hybrids.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The fantasy of an image coming to life is ancient, but not until the cinema was this fantasy actualized. The history of the movies begins with optical toys, and contemporary cinema is dominated by films that rely on computer animation. This course considers the underlying fantasies of animation in art and lit, its phenomenologies, its relation to the uncanny, its status as a pure cinema, and its place in film theory. Different modes of production and style to be explored include realist animation, abstract animation; animistic animation; animated drawings, objects, and puppets; CGI, motion capture, and live/animation hybrids.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 The fantasy of an image coming to life is ancient, but not until the cinema was this fantasy actualized. The history of the movies begins with optical toys, and contemporary cinema is dominated by films that rely on computer animation. This course considers the underlying fantasies of animation in art and lit, its phenomenologies, its relation to the uncanny, its status as a pure cinema, and its place in film theory. Different modes of production and style to be explored include realist animation, abstract animation; animistic animation; animated drawings, objects, and puppets; CGI, motion capture, and live/animation hybrids.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 This course examines the practices of appropriation of archival material in cinema, and the problems of representation inherent to them. The practical component consists of a series of creative assignments in which students are asked to use archival material, including some from Stanford's collections, to produce short moving image pieces.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Formal, historical, and cultural issues in the study of film. Classical narrative cinema compared with alternative narrative structures, documentary films, and experimental cinematic forms. Issues of cinematic language and visual perception, and representations of gender, ethnicity, and sexuality. Aesthetic and conceptual analytic skills with relevance to cinema.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From 1945 to the mid-80s, emphasizing Polish, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and Yugoslav contexts. The relationship between art and politics; postwar establishment of film industries; and emergence of national film movements such as the Polish school, Czech new wave, and new Yugoslav film. Thematic and aesthetic preoccupations of filmmakers such as Wajda, Jancso, Forman, and Kusturica. Permission of instructor required prior to the first day of classes.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From 1945 to the mid-80s, emphasizing Polish, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and Yugoslav contexts. The relationship between art and politics; postwar establishment of film industries; and emergence of national film movements such as the Polish school, Czech new wave, and new Yugoslav film. Thematic and aesthetic preoccupations of filmmakers such as Wajda, Jancso, Forman, and Kusturica. Permission of instructor required prior to the first day of classes.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 From 1945 to the mid-80s, emphasizing Polish, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, and Yugoslav contexts. The relationship between art and politics; postwar establishment of film industries; and emergence of national film movements such as the Polish school, Czech new wave, and new Yugoslav film. Thematic and aesthetic preoccupations of filmmakers such as Wajda, Jancso, Forman, and Kusturica. Permission of instructor required prior to the first day of classes.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Formal, historical, and cultural issues in the study of film. Classical narrative cinema compared with alternative narrative structures, documentary films, and experimental cinematic forms. Issues of cinematic language and visual perception, and representations of gender, ethnicity, and sexuality. Aesthetic and conceptual analytic skills with relevance to cinema.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Formal, historical, and cultural issues in the study of film. Classical narrative cinema compared with alternative narrative structures, documentary films, and experimental cinematic forms. Issues of cinematic language and visual perception, and representations of gender, ethnicity, and sexuality. Aesthetic and conceptual analytic skills with relevance to cinema.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 In this course, we will explore what it means to write with video, and we will learn to make effective and engaging video essays about historical and contemporary audiovisual media. Specifically, we will examine formal, aesthetic, and rhetorical strategies for communicating in the medium of video, and we will conduct a series of hands-on exercises utilizing digital video editing software to construct arguments, analyses, and interpretations of film and other media (including television, video games, and online media). Compared with traditional, text-based engagements, the video essay offers a remarkably direct mode of communicating critical and analytical ideas. In this medium, authors no longer struggle to describe audiovisual contents in words that can never do justice to the rich array of details that are immediately apparent to spectators  eyes and ears; instead, video essayists can simply show their viewers what they want them to see. This does not mean, however, that it is any easier to write effectively with video than it is to compose an essay with pen and paper. Similar types of expository and argumentative planning are involved in both forms, while the new technology introduces its own characteristic challenges and choices, including decisions about the spatial and temporal organization and transformation of audiovisual materials, the addition of onscreen text, voiceover commentary, and visual effects. By taking a hands-on approach, we will develop our skills with editing software such as Adobe Premiere Pro and Apple's Final Cut Pro while also cultivating our awareness of the formal and narrative techniques employed in films and other moving-image media. Through weekly assignments and group critique sessions, we will learn to express ourselves more effectively and creatively in audiovisual media. As a culmination of our efforts, we will assemble a group exhibition of our best video essays for public display on campus.nNo previous experience is required, but a willingness to learn new technologies (in particular, video editing software) is important.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 In this course, we will explore what it means to write with video, and we will learn to make effective and engaging video essays about historical and contemporary audiovisual media. Specifically, we will examine formal, aesthetic, and rhetorical strategies for communicating in the medium of video, and we will conduct a series of hands-on exercises utilizing digital video editing software to construct arguments, analyses, and interpretations of film and other media (including television, video games, and online media). Compared with traditional, text-based engagements, the video essay offers a remarkably direct mode of communicating critical and analytical ideas. In this medium, authors no longer struggle to describe audiovisual contents in words that can never do justice to the rich array of details that are immediately apparent to spectators  eyes and ears; instead, video essayists can simply show their viewers what they want them to see. This does not mean, however, that it is any easier to write effectively with video than it is to compose an essay with pen and paper. Similar types of expository and argumentative planning are involved in both forms, while the new technology introduces its own characteristic challenges and choices, including decisions about the spatial and temporal organization and transformation of audiovisual materials, the addition of onscreen text, voiceover commentary, and visual effects. By taking a hands-on approach, we will develop our skills with editing software such as Adobe Premiere Pro and Apple's Final Cut Pro while also cultivating our awareness of the formal and narrative techniques employed in films and other moving-image media. Through weekly assignments and group critique sessions, we will learn to express ourselves more effectively and creatively in audiovisual media. As a culmination of our efforts, we will assemble a group exhibition of our best video essays for public display on campus.nNo previous experience is required, but a willingness to learn new technologies (in particular, video editing software) is important.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 In this course, we will explore what it means to write with video, and we will learn to make effective and engaging video essays about historical and contemporary audiovisual media. Specifically, we will examine formal, aesthetic, and rhetorical strategies for communicating in the medium of video, and we will conduct a series of hands-on exercises utilizing digital video editing software to construct arguments, analyses, and interpretations of film and other media (including television, video games, and online media). Compared with traditional, text-based engagements, the video essay offers a remarkably direct mode of communicating critical and analytical ideas. In this medium, authors no longer struggle to describe audiovisual contents in words that can never do justice to the rich array of details that are immediately apparent to spectators  eyes and ears; instead, video essayists can simply show their viewers what they want them to see. This does not mean, however, that it is any easier to write effectively with video than it is to compose an essay with pen and paper. Similar types of expository and argumentative planning are involved in both forms, while the new technology introduces its own characteristic challenges and choices, including decisions about the spatial and temporal organization and transformation of audiovisual materials, the addition of onscreen text, voiceover commentary, and visual effects. By taking a hands-on approach, we will develop our skills with editing software such as Adobe Premiere Pro and Apple's Final Cut Pro while also cultivating our awareness of the formal and narrative techniques employed in films and other moving-image media. Through weekly assignments and group critique sessions, we will learn to express ourselves more effectively and creatively in audiovisual media. As a culmination of our efforts, we will assemble a group exhibition of our best video essays for public display on campus.nNo previous experience is required, but a willingness to learn new technologies (in particular, video editing software) is important.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 What is a medium? This course starts from the assumption that the answer to this question is not as obvious as it might at first appear. Clearly, we know some media when we see them: radio, film, and television are in many ways paradigmatic media of the twentieth century. But what about the computational, networked media of the twenty-first century? Are these still media in the same sense, or has the nature of media changed with the emergence of digital technologies? And what, for that matter, about pre-technical media? Is painting a medium in the same sense that oil or acrylic are media, or in the sense that we speak of ¿mixed media¿? Is language a medium? Are numbers? Is the body? As we shall see, the question of what a medium is raises a number of other questions of a theoretical or even philosophical nature. How is our experience of the world affected or shaped by media? Are knowledge and perception possible apart from media, or are they always mediated by the apparatuses, instruments, or assemblages of media? What is the relation between the forms and the contents of media, and how does this relation bear on questions of aesthetics, science, technology, or politics? The lecture-based course addresses these and other questions and seeks in this way to introduce a way of thinking about media that goes beyond taken-for-granted ideas and assumptions, and that has a potentially transformative effect on a wide range of theoretical and practical interests.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 What is a medium? This course starts from the assumption that the answer to this question is not as obvious as it might at first appear. Clearly, we know some media when we see them: radio, film, and television are in many ways paradigmatic media of the twentieth century. But what about the computational, networked media of the twenty-first century? Are these still media in the same sense, or has the nature of media changed with the emergence of digital technologies? And what, for that matter, about pre-technical media? Is painting a medium in the same sense that oil or acrylic are media, or in the sense that we speak of ¿mixed media¿? Is language a medium? Are numbers? Is the body? As we shall see, the question of what a medium is raises a number of other questions of a theoretical or even philosophical nature. How is our experience of the world affected or shaped by media? Are knowledge and perception possible apart from media, or are they always mediated by the apparatuses, instruments, or assemblages of media? What is the relation between the forms and the contents of media, and how does this relation bear on questions of aesthetics, science, technology, or politics? The lecture-based course addresses these and other questions and seeks in this way to introduce a way of thinking about media that goes beyond taken-for-granted ideas and assumptions, and that has a potentially transformative effect on a wide range of theoretical and practical interests.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 What is a medium? This course starts from the assumption that the answer to this question is not as obvious as it might at first appear. Clearly, we know some media when we see them: radio, film, and television are in many ways paradigmatic media of the twentieth century. But what about the computational, networked media of the twenty-first century? Are these still media in the same sense, or has the nature of media changed with the emergence of digital technologies? And what, for that matter, about pre-technical media? Is painting a medium in the same sense that oil or acrylic are media, or in the sense that we speak of ¿mixed media¿? Is language a medium? Are numbers? Is the body? As we shall see, the question of what a medium is raises a number of other questions of a theoretical or even philosophical nature. How is our experience of the world affected or shaped by media? Are knowledge and perception possible apart from media, or are they always mediated by the apparatuses, instruments, or assemblages of media? What is the relation between the forms and the contents of media, and how does this relation bear on questions of aesthetics, science, technology, or politics? The lecture-based course addresses these and other questions and seeks in this way to introduce a way of thinking about media that goes beyond taken-for-granted ideas and assumptions, and that has a potentially transformative effect on a wide range of theoretical and practical interests.Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305 Make a GiftYour contribution makes a difference. Learn how you can make a gift today.The Art & Architecture Library is a key resource to faculty and students.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305