101 Years of London juxtaposes older representations of the UK's capital city (from Defoe, Dickens, Woolf and others) with contemporary accounts (from Zadie Smith, Ian McEwen and others). We will also look at films, painting, photography and websites about London.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsFor more than a century, cars and cinema have occupied a romantic place in the American imagination, as vehicles that can take us someplace new, or engines for our fantasies of mobility, freedom and personal expression. Perhaps this is one reason why the road movie is one of the most enduring subgenres of twentieth-century film. In this class, we¿ll watch ten classic American travel films, one for each decade starting from Buster Keaton¿s silent Go West (1925) and arriving at Christopher Nolan¿s space epic Interstellar (2014). We thus begin on a train and end on a spaceship. In between we¿ll travel by car, bus, motorcycle and even on foot across America and beyond, in search of answers to the motivating questions for this course: what is the attraction of the open road, and how is the romance of its call embraced and challenged by the multiple genres of these films, the concerns of the decades in which they were produced, and the limits they impose on the idea of unrestricted travel, individual growth and independence.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsFor more than a century, cars and cinema have occupied a romantic place in the American imagination, as vehicles that can take us someplace new, or engines for our fantasies of mobility, freedom and personal expression. Perhaps this is one reason why the road movie is one of the most enduring subgenres of twentieth-century film. In this class, we¿ll watch ten classic American travel films, one for each decade starting from Buster Keaton¿s silent Go West (1925) and arriving at Christopher Nolan¿s space epic Interstellar (2014). We thus begin on a train and end on a spaceship. In between we¿ll travel by car, bus, motorcycle and even on foot across America and beyond, in search of answers to the motivating questions for this course: what is the attraction of the open road, and how is the romance of its call embraced and challenged by the multiple genres of these films, the concerns of the decades in which they were produced, and the limits they impose on the idea of unrestricted travel, individual growth and independence.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsFor more than a century, cars and cinema have occupied a romantic place in the American imagination, as vehicles that can take us someplace new, or engines for our fantasies of mobility, freedom and personal expression. Perhaps this is one reason why the road movie is one of the most enduring subgenres of twentieth-century film. In this class, we¿ll watch ten classic American travel films, one for each decade starting from Buster Keaton¿s silent Go West (1925) and arriving at Christopher Nolan¿s space epic Interstellar (2014). We thus begin on a train and end on a spaceship. In between we¿ll travel by car, bus, motorcycle and even on foot across America and beyond, in search of answers to the motivating questions for this course: what is the attraction of the open road, and how is the romance of its call embraced and challenged by the multiple genres of these films, the concerns of the decades in which they were produced, and the limits they impose on the idea of unrestricted travel, individual growth and independence.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHow does the past come to life, on the page and on the screen? From Walter Scott, to Toni Morrison, to the popular romances, films, and television series of today, this course considers a range of texts that draw their settings, characters, and plots from history. We will examine how each work addresses some of the central tensions of historical fiction: between the imagined past and the past as reconstructed through research, between description and the spirit of the past, between accuracy and relevance. Our focus will be on the craft of historical fiction and the power of techniques like description, dialogue, setting, and character to reanimate the past. For the final assessment, students will choose between a traditional argumentative paper and a historical story of their own invention.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHow does the past come to life, on the page and on the screen? From Walter Scott, to Toni Morrison, to the popular romances, films, and television series of today, this course considers a range of texts that draw their settings, characters, and plots from history. We will examine how each work addresses some of the central tensions of historical fiction: between the imagined past and the past as reconstructed through research, between description and the spirit of the past, between accuracy and relevance. Our focus will be on the craft of historical fiction and the power of techniques like description, dialogue, setting, and character to reanimate the past. For the final assessment, students will choose between a traditional argumentative paper and a historical story of their own invention.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsHow does the past come to life, on the page and on the screen? From Walter Scott, to Toni Morrison, to the popular romances, films, and television series of today, this course considers a range of texts that draw their settings, characters, and plots from history. We will examine how each work addresses some of the central tensions of historical fiction: between the imagined past and the past as reconstructed through research, between description and the spirit of the past, between accuracy and relevance. Our focus will be on the craft of historical fiction and the power of techniques like description, dialogue, setting, and character to reanimate the past. For the final assessment, students will choose between a traditional argumentative paper and a historical story of their own invention.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsIntroduction to the work of an American writer, beloved by general readers, often reviled by critics, whose career spanned from the Great Depression through World War II to the social upheavals of the 1960s. Focus on the social and political contexts of Steinbeck's major works; his fascination with California and Mexico; his interdisciplinary interest in marine biology and in philosophy; his diverse experiments with literary form, including drama and film.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsIntroduction to the work of an American writer, beloved by general readers, often reviled by critics, whose career spanned from the Great Depression through World War II to the social upheavals of the 1960s. Focus on the social and political contexts of Steinbeck's major works; his fascination with California and Mexico; his interdisciplinary interest in marine biology and in philosophy; his diverse experiments with literary form, including drama and film.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsIntroduction to the work of an American writer, beloved by general readers, often reviled by critics, whose career spanned from the Great Depression through World War II to the social upheavals of the 1960s. Focus on the social and political contexts of Steinbeck's major works; his fascination with California and Mexico; his interdisciplinary interest in marine biology and in philosophy; his diverse experiments with literary form, including drama and film.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsSome poets are known for portraying alternative sexualities in their poetry. Others seem to cover sexuality up. Can we use a poem to determine whether a poet is gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, or questioning? Or do some poets simply defy categorization? What makes a poem queer? Is poetry somehow more or less queer than other literary forms? Even if we can answer these questions, what would they tell us about literature in general? This course will investigate such topics and more by tracking queer poetry in twentieth-century America. We’ll start with nineteenth-century figures Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson, then move on to Gertrude Stein, Hart Crane, Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen, Elizabeth Bishop, Allen Ginsberg, Frank O’Hara, and others. We’ll ask what their poetry meant in their own times, as well as what it means to us in our present era of expanding civil rights and changing sexual attitudes. English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsSome poets are known for portraying alternative sexualities in their poetry. Others seem to cover sexuality up. Can we use a poem to determine whether a poet is gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, or questioning? Or do some poets simply defy categorization? What makes a poem queer? Is poetry somehow more or less queer than other literary forms? Even if we can answer these questions, what would they tell us about literature in general? This course will investigate such topics and more by tracking queer poetry in twentieth-century America. We’ll start with nineteenth-century figures Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson, then move on to Gertrude Stein, Hart Crane, Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen, Elizabeth Bishop, Allen Ginsberg, Frank O’Hara, and others. We’ll ask what their poetry meant in their own times, as well as what it means to us in our present era of expanding civil rights and changing sexual attitudes. English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsSome poets are known for portraying alternative sexualities in their poetry. Others seem to cover sexuality up. Can we use a poem to determine whether a poet is gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, or questioning? Or do some poets simply defy categorization? What makes a poem queer? Is poetry somehow more or less queer than other literary forms? Even if we can answer these questions, what would they tell us about literature in general? This course will investigate such topics and more by tracking queer poetry in twentieth-century America. We’ll start with nineteenth-century figures Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson, then move on to Gertrude Stein, Hart Crane, Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen, Elizabeth Bishop, Allen Ginsberg, Frank O’Hara, and others. We’ll ask what their poetry meant in their own times, as well as what it means to us in our present era of expanding civil rights and changing sexual attitudes. English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsIn a post-Darwin world, the notion that we might all have an animal alter-ego lurking inside seems quite familiar. But ideas about animals, how they think and feel, act and react, involve identity categories such as race, gender, class and ability in surprising ways. This course will trace the relationship between animality and human life in twentieth-century American fiction, from race and indigeneity in Jack London's dog stories to the storytelling practices of contemporary animal advocacy groups. The course may also include an experiential component in which students will have the opportunity to explore multispecies concerns with a local organization.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsIn a post-Darwin world, the notion that we might all have an animal alter-ego lurking inside seems quite familiar. But ideas about animals, how they think and feel, act and react, involve identity categories such as race, gender, class and ability in surprising ways. This course will trace the relationship between animality and human life in twentieth-century American fiction, from race and indigeneity in Jack London's dog stories to the storytelling practices of contemporary animal advocacy groups. The course may also include an experiential component in which students will have the opportunity to explore multispecies concerns with a local organization.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsIn a post-Darwin world, the notion that we might all have an animal alter-ego lurking inside seems quite familiar. But ideas about animals, how they think and feel, act and react, involve identity categories such as race, gender, class and ability in surprising ways. This course will trace the relationship between animality and human life in twentieth-century American fiction, from race and indigeneity in Jack London's dog stories to the storytelling practices of contemporary animal advocacy groups. The course may also include an experiential component in which students will have the opportunity to explore multispecies concerns with a local organization.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsReading is a political act. Through our major texts of Charles Dickens's Oliver Twist, Zora Neale Hurston's The Eatonville Anthology, and Azar Nafisi's Reading Lolita in Tehran, we will explore the classed, racialized, and gendered power dynamics of literacy and literature. How can books incite social revolutions? How can they maintain harmful inequalities? When is reading a tool of empowerment and when is it a tool of social control? We will examine these questions in a number of contexts, ranging from Victorian London, to the Jim Crow American South, from the Islamic revolution in Iran to a Silicon Valley proliferating with new forms of scientific, technological, and financial literacy. The course includes a significant service learning component, in which students will volunteer to tutor underprivileged readers through Bay Area literacy programs. Final projects will ask students to reflect on these tutoring experiences and consider the complex politics at work in the act of teaching someone to read.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsReading is a political act. Through our major texts of Charles Dickens's Oliver Twist, Zora Neale Hurston's The Eatonville Anthology, and Azar Nafisi's Reading Lolita in Tehran, we will explore the classed, racialized, and gendered power dynamics of literacy and literature. How can books incite social revolutions? How can they maintain harmful inequalities? When is reading a tool of empowerment and when is it a tool of social control? We will examine these questions in a number of contexts, ranging from Victorian London, to the Jim Crow American South, from the Islamic revolution in Iran to a Silicon Valley proliferating with new forms of scientific, technological, and financial literacy. The course includes a significant service learning component, in which students will volunteer to tutor underprivileged readers through Bay Area literacy programs. Final projects will ask students to reflect on these tutoring experiences and consider the complex politics at work in the act of teaching someone to read.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsReading is a political act. Through our major texts of Charles Dickens's Oliver Twist, Zora Neale Hurston's The Eatonville Anthology, and Azar Nafisi's Reading Lolita in Tehran, we will explore the classed, racialized, and gendered power dynamics of literacy and literature. How can books incite social revolutions? How can they maintain harmful inequalities? When is reading a tool of empowerment and when is it a tool of social control? We will examine these questions in a number of contexts, ranging from Victorian London, to the Jim Crow American South, from the Islamic revolution in Iran to a Silicon Valley proliferating with new forms of scientific, technological, and financial literacy. The course includes a significant service learning component, in which students will volunteer to tutor underprivileged readers through Bay Area literacy programs. Final projects will ask students to reflect on these tutoring experiences and consider the complex politics at work in the act of teaching someone to read.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints101 Years of London juxtaposes older representations of the UK's capital city (from Defoe, Dickens, Woolf and others) with contemporary accounts (from Zadie Smith, Ian McEwen and others). We will also look at films, painting, photography and websites about London.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints101 Years of London juxtaposes older representations of the UK's capital city (from Defoe, Dickens, Woolf and others) with contemporary accounts (from Zadie Smith, Ian McEwen and others). We will also look at films, painting, photography and websites about London.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints101 Years of London juxtaposes older representations of the UK's capital city (from Defoe, Dickens, Woolf and others) with contemporary accounts (from Zadie Smith, Ian McEwen and others). We will also look at films, painting, photography and websites about London.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe elements of fiction writing: narration, description, and dialogue. Students write complete stories and participate in story workshops. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: PWR 1 (waived in summer quarter).English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe elements of fiction writing: narration, description, and dialogue. Students write complete stories and participate in story workshops. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: PWR 1 (waived in summer quarter).English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe elements of fiction writing: narration, description, and dialogue. Students write complete stories and participate in story workshops. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: PWR 1 (waived in summer quarter).English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOnline workshop course that explores the ways in which writers of fiction have used language to examine the world, to create compelling characters, and to move readers. We will begin by studying a selection of stories that demonstrate the many techniques writers use to create fictional worlds; we'll use these stories as models for writing exercises and short assignments, leading to a full story draft.  We will study figurative language, character and setting development, and dramatic structure, among other elements of story craft. Then, each student will submit a full draft and receive feedback from the instructor and his/her classmates.  This course is taught entirely online, but retains the feel of a traditional classroom.  Optional synchronous elements such as discussion and virtual office hours provide the student direct interaction with both the instructor and his/her classmates.  Feedback on written work, both offered to and given by the student, is essential to the course and creates class rapport.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOnline workshop course that explores the ways in which writers of fiction have used language to examine the world, to create compelling characters, and to move readers. We will begin by studying a selection of stories that demonstrate the many techniques writers use to create fictional worlds; we'll use these stories as models for writing exercises and short assignments, leading to a full story draft.  We will study figurative language, character and setting development, and dramatic structure, among other elements of story craft. Then, each student will submit a full draft and receive feedback from the instructor and his/her classmates.  This course is taught entirely online, but retains the feel of a traditional classroom.  Optional synchronous elements such as discussion and virtual office hours provide the student direct interaction with both the instructor and his/her classmates.  Feedback on written work, both offered to and given by the student, is essential to the course and creates class rapport.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOnline workshop course that explores the ways in which writers of fiction have used language to examine the world, to create compelling characters, and to move readers. We will begin by studying a selection of stories that demonstrate the many techniques writers use to create fictional worlds; we'll use these stories as models for writing exercises and short assignments, leading to a full story draft.  We will study figurative language, character and setting development, and dramatic structure, among other elements of story craft. Then, each student will submit a full draft and receive feedback from the instructor and his/her classmates.  This course is taught entirely online, but retains the feel of a traditional classroom.  Optional synchronous elements such as discussion and virtual office hours provide the student direct interaction with both the instructor and his/her classmates.  Feedback on written work, both offered to and given by the student, is essential to the course and creates class rapport.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints(Formerly 94A.) Historical and contemporary as a broad genre including travel and nature writing, memoir, biography, journalism, and the personal essay. Students use creative means to express factual content.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints(Formerly 94A.) Historical and contemporary as a broad genre including travel and nature writing, memoir, biography, journalism, and the personal essay. Students use creative means to express factual content.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints(Formerly 94A.) Historical and contemporary as a broad genre including travel and nature writing, memoir, biography, journalism, and the personal essay. Students use creative means to express factual content.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOnline workshop whose primary focus is to give students a skill set to tap into their own creativity. Opportunities for students to explore their creative strengths, develop a vocabulary with which to discuss their own creativity, and experiment with the craft and adventure of their own writing. Students will come out of the course strengthened in their ability to identify and pursue their own creative interests. For undergrads only.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOnline workshop whose primary focus is to give students a skill set to tap into their own creativity. Opportunities for students to explore their creative strengths, develop a vocabulary with which to discuss their own creativity, and experiment with the craft and adventure of their own writing. Students will come out of the course strengthened in their ability to identify and pursue their own creative interests. For undergrads only.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOnline workshop whose primary focus is to give students a skill set to tap into their own creativity. Opportunities for students to explore their creative strengths, develop a vocabulary with which to discuss their own creativity, and experiment with the craft and adventure of their own writing. Students will come out of the course strengthened in their ability to identify and pursue their own creative interests. For undergrads only.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsWhat happens after the world, as we know it, has ended? In the course of examining classic and newer speculative fictional narratives detailing the ravages of various post-apocalyptic societies and the challenges those societies pose to the survivors, we explore several related questions: What...English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints101 Years of London juxtaposes older representations of the UK's capital city (from Defoe, Dickens, Woolf and others) with contemporary accounts (from Zadie Smith, Ian McEwen and others). We will also look at films, painting, photography and websites about London.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAre you a current or prospective student in the Department of English? Visit our info-for pages to learn about advising, download forms, and find other resources pertinent to you.To study English is to master the power of language. Literary study also releases our own powers of artistic invention and personal expression, which students can explore in writing courses on fiction, poetry, and the graphic novel.  Fusing criticism and creativity, the English Major is designed to unlock your skills of analysis, verbal communication, and cultural understanding.Stanford’s English curriculum features a team-taught, yearlong core sequence that traces the big picture of literature’s development from the Middle Ages to the present. English majors also learn critical tools for analyzing literature through three broad course requirements, in poetry, narrative, and methodology. Students gain a contextual framework and are prepared to take the department’s wide range of electives.Visit the Major page for information about the major core requirements and emphases.The minor in English Literature offers some flexibility for those students who want to pursue specific interests within British and American literature, while still requiring certain courses that ensure coverage of a variety of periods, genres, and methods of studying literature.Visit the Minor page for information about the minor requirements and how to declare.The Digital Humanities minor is Humanities & Sciences' newest minor that combines humanistic inquiry with digital methods and tools to generate new questions and to foster innovative research. Undergraduate students can specialize their studies by selecting one of three emphases --Geospatial Humanities, Quantitative Textual Analysis, or Text Technologies.Visit the Digital Humanities page for information about the minor requirements and how to declare.The CS+English joint major is a pioneering program that launched in Fall 2014.  In the joint major, you earn a Bachelor of Arts and Science degree by synthesizing core skills from Computer Science and English into an ePortfolio and an integrative senior project.Visit the CS+English page for Information about the CS+English joint major and how to participate.The Honors Program in English cultivates a lively intellectual environment within which you can test your ideas, germinate sophisticated critical approaches to historical and/or contemporary texts, and build interpretative, analytical and compositional skills that will have a lasting impact on your intellectual and professional life wherever the future takes you.Visit the Honors in English page for information about the Honors requirements and how to apply. Stanford’s Creative Writing Program--one of the best-known in the country--cultivates the power of individual expression within a vibrant community of writers.Visit the Creative Writing page for information about the Creative writing emphasis and minor. If you are an advanced undergraduate who wants to take the study of literature to a higher level, then the coterminal MA program is for you. You will participate in rigorous graduate-level seminars taught by the department’s renowned faculty.Visit the Coterminal page for information on the application and program requirements.Our core curriculum is designed to introduce you to the rich history of literature in English, and to give you the tools to analyze written discourse critically and creatively.  The English core will teach you to think broadly, read closely, and write compellingly.Visit the Core Course Descriptions page for details about what you'll learn in the English core courses.Blakey Vermeule
	Director of Undergraduate Studiesvermeule@stanford.eduSchedule an appointmentBrian Kersey
	Student Services Specialistbkersey@stanford.eduConnect with Stanford English on Facebook and Instagram.English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsLeft-brained, right-brained, techie, fuzzy—these are less and less terms for the world or for life. Stanford is excited to be launching a new CS+English joint major for students who want to think across the divide and create projects that fuse science and the humanities. Increasingly, groundbreaking work in literary studies is being done through technology; simultaneously, the world of computer engineering thrives on the creativity and adaptability taught in literature departments. Stanford is uniquely situated to bring together the Bay Area’s rich currents of innovation and imagination, and we are happy to invite you to be the first partners in this new integration of the disciplines.The joint major is not a double major. In a double major, you work along parallel, non-intersecting paths, and are required to take all the credits required for a major in both departments. In the joint major, you integrate the skills of the two disciplines, working with advisors in both departments to craft a project that shows the possibilities of synthesis between literature and CS. The joint major is a new program that works with you to explore and create new work between the disciplines. Because that work is integrated, the credit requirement is significantly less than for the double major.The joint major is a pioneering program not just in the country but in the world. There is, quite possibly, no other place on Earth at this moment where you can pursue an academic experience of this kind and caliber. We are delighted to have a chance to build something new with you in this program.  The joint major is structured to let you thoughtfully explore and develop your own project at the intersection of CS and literary studies. You declare the major during your sophomore year (latest by the beginning of Autumn of your junior year). All students declaring must complete the CS+English Program Proposal. Your studies as a joint major begin in your junior year, when it is recommended you create an ePortfolio of reflections, ideas, and work on the interplay between humanities and computer science. Students are encouraged to seek resources on building an ePortfolio in their junior year, as an ePortfolio can parlay the full-fledged capstone project.  In addition to helping you build up a body of work and thinking related to CS+English, building an ePortfolio will introduce you to much of the exciting work in the field being done at Stanford and in the Bay Area. In your senior year, you will complete a capstone project. This project involves both programming and literary research, and could include such work as digital editions, analyses of corpora, works of electronic literature, digital representations of literary venues, studies of natural language processing as applied to literary analysis, or any other project that draws integrally on both disciplines. All capstone projects must be approved by both the student's Computer Science advisor and English advisor. This project will normally take one quarter, and should be taken concurrently with the Computer Science capstone requirement. In English, students are required to complete 3 units of ENGLISH 198. Individual Work with a faculty advisor in English as part of the integrative project. In preparation for the Independent Study in English, students must secure an advisor, complete the CS+English Capstone form, and submit a written proposal of the project.Students who major in CS+English must complete requirements in all four following categories: the English Core, the Computer Science Foundations, an English Emphasis, and a Computer Science Track. Details for each of these categories are below.Students who major in CS+English must complete all of the following English courses:ENGLISH 160. Poetry and Poetics (5 units)ENGLISH 161. Narrative and Narrative Theory (5 units)  One course in the ENGLISH 10 series - Introduction to English I (5 units)  One course in the ENGLISH 11 series - Introduction to English II (5 units)One course in the ENGLISH 12 series - Introduction to English III (5 units)One Pre-1800 Historical Course (5 units)ENGLISH 198. Individual Work (3 credits) --Units completed for the Integrative Capstone Project.Students who major in CS+English must complete all of the following courses:MATH 41. Calculus (5 units)MATH 42. Calculus (5 units)CS 103. Mathematical Foundations of Computing (5 units)CS 109. Introduction to Probability for Computer Scientists (5 units)  5.-6. Two additional Math electives (6-15 units total)  7.   Physics 41. Mechanics (4 units)  8.   Physics 43. Electricity and Magnetism (4 units)  9.   One additional Science elective (3-5 units)  10. One course in Technology in Society (3-5 units)  11. CS 106B. Programming Abstractions or 106X. Programming Abstractions (5 units)  12. ENGR 40. Introductory Electronics (5 units) (E40A and M also allowed)  13. One Engineering Fundamentals elective (3-4 units)Students who major in CS+English must complete five classes in their chosen emphasis in English. Complete requirements for each English emphasis can be found here. CS 107. Computer Organization Systems (5 units)CS 110. Principles of Computer Systems (5 units)CS 161. Design and Analysis of Algorithms (5 units)CS191. or CS191W. Senior Project (3 units)  5-9. Five courses that satisfy a CS Track. These are the first five courses listed under the “Depth/Track and Electives” area on the CS Program Sheet.Note: Writing in the Major for CS can be satisfied with either CS181W or CS191W. The requirements for the Biocomputation and Computer Engineering Tracks do not follow this pattern. Please see Explore Degrees for requirements for the Biocomputation and Computer Engineering Tracks.CS Information Track and English Literature Emphasis. (Assumes no programming experience, no AP credit in Calculus, Physics, or Chemistry.)Freshman  CS106A (5)CS106B (5)Math 42 (5)CS103 (5)CS107 (5)English 10A (5)English 160 (5)English 11C (5)English 161 (5)CS109 (5)English 12A (5)History of literature course (5)English elective (5)CS110 (5)English elective (5)CS124 (4)English elective (5)English elective (5)CS145 (4)CS224W (3)English elective (5)CS142 (3)English 198 (3)CS191W (3)The CS+English joint major is a new type of undergraduate degree program that allows you to gain mastery in depth of two disciplines, Computer Science and literature, and to demonstrate that mastery through work that integrates computational and literary analysis.Bachelor of Arts and Sciences (BAS) in English and Computer Science.The joint major integrates the two majors: your central work in the joint major is a project that involves both programming and literary evaluation or research. A double major runs on two different tracks; with the joint major, you bring the tracks together.Because the joint major works by integrating two majors, you earn the degree with fewer credits than the double major.  In the case of the joint major, both departments have scaled back their required courses to make room for your work between the disciplines.As with the double major, the key difference is one of integration: the joint major works by synthesizing your work in CS and English, while a major/minor option is basically two tracks. When you minor in a subject, the department you are minoring in aims to give you breadth in the subject; with the joint major, you will get depth in both subjects.The ePortfolio is an online collection of your work that features: (1) best assignments from both CS and English, (2) reflections on and revisions of this work, (3) reflections on the crossovers and differences between English and CS, (4) planning and early stages of the integrative capstone work.In some cases, and with the agreement of your advisors from both departments, an expanded ePortfolio can become the Integrative Capstone Project.Contact us now for details on getting involved. All students must declare this joint major by the beginning of their junior year.The Integrative Capstone Project is defined by its integration of programming and literary evaluation and research. The intersection between CS and English is new and rich, and there are many types of projects to be done. From digital editions to quantitative analysis of corpora to studies of natural language processing as applied to literary analysis, the key to these projects is the synthesis of coding and literary work. Above all, the program looks to you: what project would you like to pursue that synthesizes the two disciplines?If you are declared as a joint major in CS+English, you may pursue the English and Creative Writing emphasis. However, the English and Foreign Language Literature, English and Philosophy, and Interdisciplinary English emphases are not available with the joint major.Because the joint major is structured to include most of the requirements for both majors, there is some room for transferring onto a single-major track. It is simply necessary to look at the requirements that have been omitted from the joint major and be sure that you have enough time in your schedule to take these courses. Naturally, talk to your advisors and the Undergraduate Student Services Coordinator about the decision and the process.- Learn more about CS+English on Explore Degrees. - Learn more about the new joint degree program on Stanford Undergrad.- Connect with Stanford English on Facebook and Instagram. Alex Woloch / English Department Chair / woloch@stanford.edu Brian Kersey / Student Services Specialist, English / bkersey@stanford.eduMeredith Hutchin / Student Services Specialist, Computer Science / hutchin@cs.stanford.edu English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsAre you a current or prospective student in the Department of English? Visit our info-for pages to learn about advising, download forms, and find other resources pertinent to you.The important and flourishing field of Digital Humanities offers an exciting opportunity to expand the range of inquiry and invigorate interest in humanistic study among Stanford's undergraduates. This new Humanities and Sciences minor is pioneering in both the content of the institution--emphasizing the intersection of technology, computational analysis, new media, and traditional interpretive modes--as well as in the integrated cross-departmental nature of the course of study. The minor in Digital Humanites aims to provide a comprehensive educational system emphasizing the complementary and synergy of scientific and computational methods with humanites practices such as interpretation, critical thinking, and aesthetic creation. The minor consists of three clusters: Geospatial Humanities, Quantitative Textual Analysis, and Text Technologies. Students may choose to specialize in one of these areas.Ranging from theory (space as a category of analysis) to technical representation/analysis of spatial distribution through algorithms, geospatial humanities can draw upon anthropology, geography, and other disciplines with a tradition of interest in space; meanwhile, it can feed into (for instance) literary studies.Quantitative Textual Analysis includes anything that uses computers to quantify formal properties of texts, ranging from word frequencies to chapter division to character networks. Genre, authorship, sentiment analysis, "opinion mining"--all of these can play a role. It intersects with linguistics/NLP; Classics and Cognitive Psychology can also be allies.Text Technologies encompasses technologies of communication; social media analysis; database creation, coding, TEI; technologies of publishing and text access; digital curation of virtual exhibitions (which allows us to bring in the arts, digital imagining, etc.)Students must take a minimum of twenty units: at least one core course (5 units), and at least five other courses of at least three credits each. Students complete twenty or more units in courses relevant to the major in departments across the university including Anthropology, Art, Communications, Computer Science, East Asian Languages and Cultures, Engineering, English, French, History, Italian, Linguistics, Music, Philosophy, Religious Studies, and Theatre and Performance. These electives are to be determined in consultation with the advisor to the Minor (a faculty member in English).All of the core courses are designed to fulfill the Ways requirement for Social Inquiry and Quantitative Reasoning; or Social Inquiry and Interpretative and Aesthetic Inquiry; or Creative Expression and Social Inquiry or Quantitative Reasoning. At the center of these courses is the requirement that digital skills are acquired and demonstrated, alongside the understanding that Digital Humanities seeks not simply to highlight tools and approaches, but also to create new knowledge using these novel methods.DH WebsiteDH CoursesDH Faculty College English remains a top-ranked department nationally because of the strength and variety of our faculty publications, both in scholarly research and creative writing. Browse the Bookshelf to explore our many interests.Explore the BookshelfMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsMake a gift to English© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints