The department receives approximately 130 applications for the Ph.D. program each year, from which, on average, 7 students are admitted. The department does not admit external applicants to the M.A. program.  General admissions information and the online forms can be found at the University Graduate Admissions website. Start Your ApplicationThe Stanford Department of Linguistics considers graduate admissions applications once a year.  The deadline to apply to its Linguistics Ph.D. program for study beginning in the 2018-19 academic year is December 5, 2017.  Many common questions about the programs and the application process are addressed under About the Programs and Application Process.The following materials are required components of the admission application.  The entire application and supplemental materials are submitted online. The application form is completed online through the University Graduate Admissions website.There is an application fee of $125.  Fee waivers are available for eligible students.Submitted as part of the online application, the statement of purpose should be designed as a narrative presentation of yourself.  Your statement should thoughtfully and clearly convey (1) what you have accomplished thus far in linguistics or in related fields, (2) why you are applying for a Ph.D. program in Linguistics (i.e. why you want to study linguistics and why you need a Ph.D. to achieve your goals), (3) why Stanford is the place you want to carry out your studies, and (4) what your research interests in linguistics are, or if they are not yet defined, what the possibilities might be.  Don’t use your statement to repeat information that we will learn from other parts of your application, such as your transcript, but do highlight things you think are particularly important, and do feel free to explain any things in your other materials that you are less proud of.  Caution:  avoid telling us too much about your childhood and your fascination with language.The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General Test is required of all applicants.  Official scores from a test taken within the last 5 years must be sent from ETS to Stanford using the Institution Code 4704.  No minimum GRE score is required to apply.The Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) is required of all applicants whose first language is not English.   Official scores from a test taken within the last 18 months must be sent from ETS to Stanford using the Institution Code 4704.  The University sets the minimum TOEFL score requirements which can be found on the University Graduate Admissions website.The Department of Linguistics does not require the Test of Spoken English (TSE).  For more information about these required tests and minimum scores for admission, please visit the University Graduate Admissions website.Transcripts are required from all prior college level schools attended for at least one year.  A scanned copy of the official transcript is submitted as part of the online application.  Please do not mail hard copy transcripts to the department at the time of application.  We will contact you at a later date if we need an official transcript; if you are contacted, you will be asked to provide two hard copies of your official transcript or to have an electronic transcript sent directly to linguistics@stanford.edu by your degree granting institution.   Three letters of recommendation are required.  Recommenders submit their letters through the online system.  In deciding whom to ask for letters of recommendation, give preference to people who have taught you and/or directed your research activities, people who know you and your work well, and/or people who know what linguistics is and who understand what you’re getting into.A writing sample is required, preferably on a linguistics topic, but in any case something that displays your research abilities and writing skills.  The writing sample is also submitted with the online application.  The purpose of the writing sample is to give a sense of your ability to do research, how you might approach a problem and work through it; that is, it should convey not only the way you write but the way you work and think.  Send a paper that you are proud of.  If possible, this should be a paper in Linguistics or in a related discipline (such as logic or anthropology).  The paper does not need to be lengthy; approximately 10 to 15 pages is standard.  If you have a B.A. or M.A. thesis, this also would be appropriate, but please designate no more than 25 pages that the Admissions Committee should focus on.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsGraduate AdmissionsBecoming a Visiting ScholarBecoming a Visiting StudentEnglish for Foreign StudentsContact the Graduate Studies Advisor, Beth Levin Check our resources for graduate studentsOur M.A. program develops students' knowledge of linguistics, preparing them for a professional career or doctoral study in linguistics or related disciplines.  This is achieved through completion of courses, including coursework in an area of specialization within the field, and experience with independent research in Linguistics.Students should work out their individual program in advance of beginning the program with an advisor in Linguistics keeping the following requirements and guidelines in mind.  The M.A. degree requires the completion of 45 units; at least 36 of these must be in Linguistics.  The coursework must include one introductory course in each of the areas of sound structure, syntax, and semantics, as well as four courses in the student’s area of specialization.  If the student can make a compelling case, the department will allow up to 9 of the 45 units required for the M.A. to be in a department other than Linguistics.  Courses from outside the Department of Linguistics must have clear linguistic content or contribute methodological knowledge that will facilitate the thesis project.  No more than two courses taken for the M.A. program should be at the 100 level.The majority of the courses taken towards the 45 units of degree program coursework must be taken for a letter grade; these should include the three required introductory courses and the four courses constituting the specialization, which should all be completed with at least a 'B'.  The overall coursework grade point average (GPA) must be at least 3.0 (B).Students must complete a research paper supervised by a committee of three faculty (normally this requirement is fulfilled by up to 6 units of Linguistics 398, Directed Research).  The primary advisor should be a regular faculty member in the Department of Linguistics; students should discuss the selection of the additional two readers with the primary reader.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsClick on the links below for a filtered list of courses by research area.Autumn 2017 courses offered by the Linguistics Department:  © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsGraduate AdmissionsBecoming a Visiting ScholarBecoming a Visiting StudentEnglish for Foreign StudentsContact the Graduate Studies Advisor, Beth Levin Check our resources for graduate studentsOur graduate programs provide a unique environment where linguistic theory, multiple methodologies, and computational research not only peacefully coexist, but interact in a highly synergistic fashion.  We have an unprecedented and unequalled level of collaboration among faculty and students. Our focus is on the Ph.D. degree; however, the department occasionally admits students solely for the M.A. degree.  Ph.D. students elsewhere at Stanford may apply for the Ph.D. Minor. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsGraduate AdmissionsBecoming a Visiting ScholarBecoming a Visiting StudentEnglish for Foreign StudentsContact the Graduate Studies Advisor, Beth Levin Check our resources for graduate studentsOur M.A. program develops students' knowledge of linguistics, preparing them for a professional career or doctoral study in linguistics or related disciplines.  This is achieved through completion of courses, including coursework in an area of specialization within the field, and experience with independent research in Linguistics.Students should work out their individual program in advance of beginning the program with an advisor in Linguistics keeping the following requirements and guidelines in mind.  The M.A. degree requires the completion of 45 units; at least 36 of these must be in Linguistics.  The coursework must include one introductory course in each of the areas of sound structure, syntax, and semantics, as well as four courses in the student’s area of specialization.  If the student can make a compelling case, the department will allow up to 9 of the 45 units required for the M.A. to be in a department other than Linguistics.  Courses from outside the Department of Linguistics must have clear linguistic content or contribute methodological knowledge that will facilitate the thesis project.  No more than two courses taken for the M.A. program should be at the 100 level.The majority of the courses taken towards the 45 units of degree program coursework must be taken for a letter grade; these should include the three required introductory courses and the four courses constituting the specialization, which should all be completed with at least a 'B'.  The overall coursework grade point average (GPA) must be at least 3.0 (B).Students must complete a research paper supervised by a committee of three faculty (normally this requirement is fulfilled by up to 6 units of Linguistics 398, Directed Research).  The primary advisor should be a regular faculty member in the Department of Linguistics; students should discuss the selection of the additional two readers with the primary reader.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsGraduate AdmissionsBecoming a Visiting ScholarBecoming a Visiting StudentEnglish for Foreign StudentsContact the Graduate Studies Advisor, Beth Levin Check our resources for graduate studentsThis page describes the application process for the M.A. degree in Linguistics.  The process depends on the applicant's status. If you are applying to the Ph.D. program, please see Graduate Admissions.The department does not admit external applicants to the M.A. program.Graduate students in other Stanford departments must submit an entire application consisting of a statement of purpose, transcript, letters of reference (these letters can be those used at time of application, sent over by the home department), a course plan, and the name of an advisor within their home department.  The deadline for applications is February 13, 2018.  Submit all materials by the deadline to the Student Services Manager.  Students must submit an application consisting of all required University forms and a statement of purpose, transcript, letters of reference, course plan, and the name of an advisor within the Department of Linguistics using the online application system Applyweb.  Please see University Guidelines.  The deadline for applications is February 13, 2018. Submit all materials through the online application system.  Matriculated Linguistics Ph.D. students should see the Linguistics Ph.D. Handbook for details on how to receive the M.A. as part of their progress to the Linguistics Ph.D.   © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Undergraduate Studies Advisor, Vera Gribanova Resources for undergraduatesUndergrad mentor at course info sessionThe undergraduate studies advisor, the undergraduate mentor, and the student services manager have primary responsibility for advising Linguistics majors.  As students become more familiar with the Department of Linguistics and the major, they are encouraged to choose a personal advisor from among the linguistics faculty.  Seniors, in particular, are urged to select a personal advisor.At registration time every quarter, the undergraduate mentor will hold an information session about the Linguistics courses to be offered in the following quarter.  Graduate students will be present to offer information and advice about these courses and about relevant courses outside the Department of Linguistics.When declaring the major, each student meets with the undergraduate advisor and the undergraduate mentor together to discuss the Course Planning Guide and the path through the major.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Undergraduate Studies Advisor, Vera Gribanova Resources for undergraduatesHonors work brings great personal and intellectual rewards, including mastery of a topic, and getting to know two faculty members quite well. Students should be aware that the honors program requires a significant amount of time commitment throughout all three quarters of the senior year (in recognition of this, 10 units of directed reading and honors research can be devoted to writing the thesis).Honors students take a total of 65 units. These must include:In the Fall of the senior year, honors students enroll in Linguistics 199, Independent Study, to work closely with one of the advisors on the research project.In Winter and Spring quarter of the senior year honor students register in Linguistics 198, Honors Research, with the principal advisor for close supervision of the honors thesis.Students will meet in an honors workshop (1 unit of 198, Honors Research is available) each of Winter and Spring quarters, to share questions and findings. This workshop will also serve as a writing and oral presentation workshop with focus on preparing focus on preparing for presentations in the Spring quarter Honors Colloquium.Be sure to sign up to graduate with honors on Axess.Students should apply for honors by the end of Spring Quarter of the junior year. This allows preliminary steps in the thesis research to begin over the summer before the senior year.Application involves completing the Application for Honors Work in Linguistics form, which needs to be signed by the Undergraduate Studies Advisor and a thesis project advisor, and then filing it with the Student Services Manager.  As part of the application, the student must write a research proposal describing the honors project and have it approved by the faculty advisor.Apply for honors work in LinguisticsThe thesis must be submitted in final, acceptable form by May 22nd, together with the department's Honors Thesis Signature Form signed by the principal advisor and second reader, and with an abstract for posting on the Web.  Three copies of the thesis are needed:  one for each faculty member and one for the department.The thesis topic will be presented orally at a department Honors Colloquium late in Spring Quarter.  A copy of the thesis will be filed in the Linguistics Library.Funding for honors research is available through the Office of Undergraduate Advising and Research.  Requests for summer funding are due in early April.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Undergraduate Studies Advisor, Vera Gribanova Resources for undergraduatesAt the 2015 Majors NightComplete the Course Planning Guide for the B.A. in Linguistics and have it signed by the Undergraduate Studies Advisor (Vera Gribanova).Declare the major on Axess.Bring the completed Course Planning Guide to the Student Services Manager (Jeanne Su in 460-127E), pick up a T-shirt. and arrange to have a picture taken for the Linguistics bulletin board.Students should consult with the Undergraduate Studies Advisor when declaring the major, and maintain regular contact with the advisor during the remainder of their Stanford career.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Undergraduate Studies Advisor, Vera Gribanova Resources for undergraduatesThe Departments of Computer Science and Linguistics are now offering a joint major, integrating ideas and skills from the two disciplines.  Please see the following links for details regarding this major option, information about how to declare and FAQs.To declare the joint major, students must first declare each major through Axess.  Next, fill out the program planner for CS + LING majors and schedule a meeting with Professor Dan Jurafsky to declare the Linguistics piece of the major.  Once this meeting has occurred, schedule a meeting with CS.  Finally, submit the Declaration or Change of Undergraduate Major, Minor, Honors, or Degree Program.Program planner for CS + LING majorsLearn more about Joint Majors:  CS + XRead CS + X Frequently Asked Questions for Students© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Undergraduate Studies Advisor, Vera Gribanova Resources for undergraduatesThe undergraduate major stresses the study of language both as a fundamental human faculty and as a changing social institution.  At the core of the program is a set of departmental courses on the nature of human language; in addition, the major draws on courses offered by other departments and programs. 1-unit Gateway course, 196, to be taken in autumn of junior year.2-3 unit Capstone course, 197A, to be taken in winter of senior year.Students must take at least one course each from two of the following three areas below:Students must take at least one course each from two of the following four areas:Students must take at least two 200-level Linguistics courses. See ExploreCourses for current options.  If the courses are cross-listed at the 100 and 200 levels, be sure to enroll at the 200 level if you wish the course to count for this requirement.  The requirement is designed to introduce students to advanced work in the area of concentration.  In planning their courses, majors should think of the requirement as offering an opportunity for another capstone experience, in many cases including an opportunity to read original articles by leading linguists, and ideally providing a way of synthesizing the various courses taken.(**Please note:  Unit requirement has changed as of Autumn 2016-17.  If you declared before Autumn 2016-17, you may follow the old requirements.)Requirements for the BA include at least 55 units of course work; at least 28 of these units must be in Linguistics.  The remaining units may be in Linguistics or in related fields, with approval from the Undergraduate Adviser.  Of the 55 units required for the major, no more than 12 may be below the 100 level.  All required courses must be taken for a letter grade of C- or better.  No more than two other courses used towards the 55 units of course work may be taken on a credit/no credit basis (CR/NC).Of the courses that fulfill the 55 units, one should be Linguistics 196, Introduction to Research for Undergraduates, taken in Autumn Quarter of the Junior year.  This course introduces students to research being conducted within the department by graduate students and faculty.  It also introduces students to other opportunities such as honors work, and independent research in the senior year.The following courses fullfill the requirements of Writing in the Major (WIM): Linguist 121A, 121B, 130A, 140. Majors must have competence in at least one language other than English as part of their understanding of the field of linguistics and its study.  This requirement is fulfilled by completion of six quarters of study of a language or the equivalent.  The requirement may be fulfilled by coursework at Stanford or at a community college, or by certification of proficiency through the Language Center (see University requirements).  The Language Center is responsible for certifying whether a student has achieved the requisite proficiency in a foreign language.  Majors may petition to be exempted from the language requirement if they have grown up speaking a language other than English and can use it for everyday purposes and for linguistic analysis.  Language course units do not count towards the major. Wherever possible, students should seek to use data from the language in coursework or in research.The Course Planning Guide will help you plan the requirements for the Linguistics major. It should be completed at the first meeting with the Undergraduate Studies Advisor and updated Annually.Additionally, please review Sample Program Scenarios to see typical course plans. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Undergraduate Studies Advisor, Vera Gribanova Resources for undergraduatesA minor in Linguistics provides a solid background for work in any field in which communication is important, but it is particularly valuable for students interested in such disciplines as anthropology, communication, computer science, education (language, literacy, and culture), hearing and speech sciences, languages, law, philosophy, psychology, or in teaching English as a second language.In order to complete the minor, you must complete at least 28 units of coursework (typically seven courses) in Linguistics and related fields, approved in advance by the undergraduate studies adviser.  No more than two courses, neither of which is among the required courses, may be taken on a credit/no credit basis (CR/NC).  The courses counting towards the minor must be units beyond those needed to satisfy your major course of study.Your plan should include:Linguistics 1One course each from two of the three areas below:Phonetics and Phonology:  105, 110Syntax:  120, 121A, 121BSemantics and Pragmatics:  130A, 130BEither 150 or 160 or, in advance consultation with the Linguistics undergraduate studies adviser, a course in historical linguistics or the history of a languageAt least four other courses determined in advance consultation with the Linguistics undergraduate studies adviser.  Students are encouraged to take at least one 200-level Linguistics course.  Students may also choose to do independent work with a faculty member of their choice.1. Complete the Minor Planning Guide for the Minor in Linguistics, and have it signed by the Undergraduate Studies Advisor. 2. Complete the Major-Minor and Multiple Major Course Approval Form, which must be approved by both the major department and the Student Services Manager.3. Submit the completed Minor Planning Guide to the Student Services Manager and arrange to have your picture taken for the Linguistics bulletin board. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsContact the Undergraduate Studies Advisor, Vera Gribanova Resources for undergraduatesThe Department of Linguistics will offer a small number of research internships for Stanford undergraduates in the summer 2017.  They are intended to provide undergraduates with opportunities to work closely with faculty on faculty-led research and scholarship. 2017 Project DescriptionsOnly Stanford University undergraduates may apply.  Linguistics majors with relevant skills for the internship are preferred, but students from other majors may apply if they have the needed skills.  The program is intended for juniors and sophomores. Interns must be in good academic standing and must have taken any courses the faculty investigator considers relevant for the internship.  It is expected that both the faculty mentor and the intern will be on campus during the internship period (late June through late August).Internships come with a full-time stipend of $7000, paid by funding from VPUE.  Full time is 40 hours per week for 10 summer weeks.  Interns and their faculty mentors will attend bi-weekly lunch meetings to informally update those in other Linguistics summer research projects on the work they are conducting and on possible issues they are facing.Interns will be asked to submit their findings, summarizing the work done and any conclusions or thoughts about next questions for research, at an informal department presentation early in the Autumn Quarter.Interns will also be eligible to present their work as a poster at the annual Symposium of Undergraduate Research in Progress (SURP), typically held at the beginning of Alumni Homecoming weekend in October.Undergraduates are encouraged to talk with the faculty mentors to find out more about particular research projects before submitting their preferences.If you are interested in one or more of these projects, please send the following to Student Services Manager Jeanne Su by Monday, March 27th. A ranked list of at most three internships; A few sentences explaining what background and qualifications you would bring to each internship that interests you; Optional:  Your CV, if available.Students are encouraged to speak with the faculty mentors if you have questions about any of the research projects.The internships are funded by the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education (VPUE). © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsOur undergraduate programs stress the study of language both as a fundamental human faculty and as a changing social institution. At the core of the programs are a set of departmental courses on the nature of human language; in addition, the major draws on courses offered by other departments and programs.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsThe Department of Linguistics admits a limited number of undergraduates to the coterminal degree program, which allows them to receive the B.A. and M.A. degrees simultaneously.Students admitted to this program complete the requirements for both the major in Linguistics and the M.A. degree in Linguistics, including writing an M.A. thesis.  Thus, the coterminal degree provides students with the opportunity to carry out a more extensive research project than is typical with solely a B.A. degree.University requirements for the coterminal M.A. are described in the "Coterminal Bachelor's and Master's Degrees" section of ExploreDegrees.  For University coterminal degree program rules and University application forms, see the Stanford Undergrad Coterm Guide.Specific instructions may be found on the How to apply page for the M.A. degree.© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsWhat do Stanford linguists do in the summer when their teaching duties are finally over? Go find somewhere else to teach, of course!© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints Information is subject to change. Please check Explore Courses in the Stanford Bulletin for the most up-to-date information along with course descriptions. © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints