Colorful speaker array in Braun courtyard
	Commencement 2010The MA in Music, Science, and Technology (MA/MST) degree is a two-year degree granted at the successful completion of specific coursework.  The MA/MST program is designed for candidates having an undergraduate engineering, science, music, or arts degree, or a degree that includes course work in engineering mathematics. Courses and research topics include music perception, music-related signal processing, human-computer interaction, synthesis, and inter-media among others.[N.B. The MA/MST program is the only terminal Master's degree offered by the Department; it is two years in duration. It is is available to current Stanford undergraduates as a Coterminal Master's, current Stanford graduate students, and external applicants.][N.B. The three MAs listed above are available only to current doctoral students in Music who wish to add a Master’s degree to their existing doctoral program.]Learn more about the master's programs in the Stanford BulletinLearn more about the Coterminal Master'sThe DMA in composition is offered to a limited number of students who demonstrate substantial training in the field and high promise of attainment as composers. Students may work in traditional and/or electronic forms. Breadth is achieved through studies in other branches of music and in relevant fields outside of music, as desirable. In addition to formal coursework and independent study, candidates are required to write a number of works in various forms and to present a public lecture-demonstration based on their final project, a large-scale composition.The PhD program in computer-based music theory and acoustics is offered by the Department of Music through the Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics (CCRMA, pronounced "karma"). CCRMA is a multidisciplinary facility attracting PhD students from several departments and schools across campus including Computer Science (CS), Electrical Engineering (EE), Mechanical Engineering (ME), and Psychology (PSYCH). While all CCRMA faculty hold positions within the Department of Music, Julius Smith also holds a courtesy appointment in EE which enables him to serve as primary thesis advisor for PhD students in EE. Ge Wang holds a courtesy appointment in CS and, likewise, may serve as a primary thesis advisor for PhDs in CS. [N.B. Application for graduate study is handled by the corresponding home department.]The first three years of graduate study for graduates in musicology are devoted to completion of required coursework and passage of the qualifying and special area examinations. After the successful defense of the dissertation proposal (incorporated within the special area exam), the student concentrates on research and writing of the dissertation. The dissertation demonstrates the student’s ability to work systematically and independently to produce a substantial work of competent scholarship.Applications to the above programs may be made directly from a Bachelor’s program.Learn more about the doctoral programs in the Stanford BulletinLearn About Applying to the Graduate  Programs© Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright ComplaintsYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
