
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				Research students undertake original research leading to the submission of a thesis. They work under the supervision of a Principal and a Secondary Supervisor. They do not normally attend taught courses but follow a tailor-made programme of skills training and personal development courses. To be admitted as a research student you need a Master’s degree with a good grade in a relevant subject. All research students at UCL initially register as MPhil students and, provided they have made satisfactory progress, can upgrade to PhD status after a year (or two years for part-time students). Full-time PhD study normally takes a minimum of three years, part-time study a minimum of five years. CenTraS invites applications from suitably qualified students wishing to undertake research on any aspect of translation.If you wish to apply for admission to UCL as a research student in translation studies, you should, in the first instance, and before you complete the UCL online application form, contact the CenTraS Director, Professor Theo Hermans, with (a) details of your educational background, (b) an outline research project proposal, and (c) an indication of how you propose to fund your study.Information on the application process, general entry requirements, tuition fees, accommodation and the UCL Doctoral School can be found on the Doctoral School website. Unlike taught programmes, which start in September, a research degree can be started at any time of the year.UCL research students have access to a wealth of library and other resources. UCL’s own libraries cover all subjects and almost all European languages. Beyond UCL, and within easy walking distance, there are the libraries of the University of London, the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) and the British Library.CenTraS research students can make use of a dedicated cluster room (the TransCluster) housing 60 computers with specialist software. They share a common room with other research students. As a research student in CenTraS you work, under supervision, on your own project. You follow a personal programme of skills training, which is documented in an online logbook. You engage with your peers in regular research seminars and other events, and you attend public lectures. Research students in their second year and beyond may do a certain amount of teaching on the MA in Translation and the MSc in Specialised Translation.CenTraS currently has around 30 PhD students and several Visiting Research Students.• Current PhD Students
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				Gamer-generated Language and Localisation of Massively Multiplayer Online Games 
   	    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				2018-19 pathways:2018-19 pathways:
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The principal aim of this module is to give an understanding of the nature of translation and its significance as a cultural and historical force. The module is made up of three strands, comprised of translation theory, history and case studies. Classes on theoretical aspects consider different ways of conceptualizing and studying translation. The historical part investigates changing views of translation in the Western tradition over centuries, from St Jerome to Jacques Derrida. A series of case studies highlights particular topics and issues in the practice of translation; topics in previous years have included audio visual translation for opera and translating Somali poetry. By the end of the module you will have acquired a grasp of key concepts related to translation and its history, an appreciation of translation as a cultural phenomenon, and an ability to analyse translations from different viewpoints and investigate the associated theoretical and ethical issues.Credits: 30Assessment: Two 1,500 word essays and one 3,000 word essayModule convenor: Dr Geraldine BrodieLawrence Venuti, ed., The Translation Studies Reader, London & New York: Routledge, 2000, 3rd ed. 2012.Karin Littau and Piotr Kuhiwczak, eds., A Companion to Translation Studies, Clevedon: Multilingual Matters, 2007.Jeremy Munday, Introducing Translation Studies. Theories and Applications, London & New York: Routledge, 2001, 3rd ed. 2012.Anthony Pym, Exploring Translation Theories, London & New York: Routledge, 2010.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module consists of a series of lectures examining: roles of interpreters in interaction; interaction management in interpreter and remote-interpreter mediated events; the language product of interpreters; the prosody of interpreting; the pragmatic decisions made by interpreters; register in interpreting; interpreting and cognition; interpreting, fatigue and team working; interpreters and language directionality. Credits: 15Assessment: Students are assessed by course work (100%). The course work consists of either a 1,500 word essay analysing a 5-minute interpretation with an ELAN annotation, or a 3,000 word essay from a list of questions.Tutor: TBC
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module consists of a series of lectures examining: the historical development of interpreting; the influence of technology on interpreting provision; routes to professionalization of interpreters; conference interpreting provision, language status and institutions; community interpreting, interpreting as interaction and interpreting as a social practice; legislation, human rights and language politics; interpreting in the media, voice, in-vision and audio description. It aims to develop students' understanding of the different tensions and mechanism at play when interpreting is provided. Credits: 15Assessment: One 3,000 word essayTutor: TBC
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The module covers the use of different computer-based methodologies to improve translation output, in terms of both speed and accuracy. It aims to introduce you to the following activities and/or technologies, all of which are employed in the translation industry: terminology mining on the WWW, terminology management, machine translation and translation memory (covering the use of two different systems). Although it has an element of theory the module is largely practical in nature. The module will be taught via a weekly two-hour session in a computer cluster. Understanding and using Translation Technology II is a continuation of this module.Credits: 15Assessment: Report on project (2,500 words plus translation and supporting files)Tutor: Dr Mark ShuttleworthEITHER:Austermühl, Frank (2001) Electronic Tools for Translators, Manchester: St. Jerome Publishing.OR:Bowker, L. (2002) Computer-aided Translation Technology: A Practical Introduction, Ottawa: University of Ottawa Press.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module is a continuation of Translation Technology I. First of all, we will be covering a third translation memory system and considering the question of evaluating TM systems. Following that, the module moves on to look at techniques of terminology extraction, methodologies for localising software and web content, and a discussion of how to customise machine translation engines. Taken together, the two modules provide participants with a good overview of most types of translation technology. The module will be taught via a weekly two-hour session in a computer cluster. Most of these sessions will be practical in nature but there will be a small number of lecture-style presentations as well.Credits: 15Assessment: One 3,000 word essayModule convenor: Dr Mark ShuttleworthPrerequisite: TRTPG004 – Understanding and using Translation Technology IIn collaboration with:
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The module will consist of practical translation exercises covering a wide range of texts and registers. It aims to develop linguistic and interpretative skills at a highly advanced level as well as to enhance the understanding of the translation process itself.Credits: 30Assessment: Students are assessed by coursework (50%) and an unseen 3-hour desk exam (50%). The coursework consists of two 1,500 word assignments.Tutor: TBA
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The curriculum for this module will be a wide one, encompassing not only translation practices as they are implemented on the WWW but also the social context that surrounds it. Thus topics to be covered will include the history of internet translation; the impact on working practices of on-line machine translation and other translation software and resources; crowdsourced translation; the Wikipedia phenomenon; translation blogs and translation portals; fansubbing; WWW localisation. This will be a largely theoretical module but with a practical dimension. It is anticipated that it will include a certain amount of research content, not least because relatively little has been written on a number of the topics being included.Credits: 15Assessment: Two 1,500-word essays, the second of which can have a practical elementModule convenor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth
           	    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				Research students undertake original research leading to the submission of a thesis. They work under the supervision of a Principal and a Secondary Supervisor. They do not normally attend taught courses but follow a tailor-made programme of skills training and personal development courses. To be admitted as a research student you need a Master’s degree with a good grade in a relevant subject. All research students at UCL initially register as MPhil students and, provided they have made satisfactory progress, can upgrade to PhD status after a year (or two years for part-time students). Full-time PhD study normally takes a minimum of three years, part-time study a minimum of five years. CenTraS invites applications from suitably qualified students wishing to undertake research on any aspect of translation.If you wish to apply for admission to UCL as a research student in translation studies, you should, in the first instance, and before you complete the UCL online application form, contact the CenTraS Director, Professor Theo Hermans, with (a) details of your educational background, (b) an outline research project proposal, and (c) an indication of how you propose to fund your study.Information on the application process, general entry requirements, tuition fees, accommodation and the UCL Doctoral School can be found on the Doctoral School website. Unlike taught programmes, which start in September, a research degree can be started at any time of the year.UCL research students have access to a wealth of library and other resources. UCL’s own libraries cover all subjects and almost all European languages. Beyond UCL, and within easy walking distance, there are the libraries of the University of London, the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) and the British Library.CenTraS research students can make use of a dedicated cluster room (the TransCluster) housing 60 computers with specialist software. They share a common room with other research students. As a research student in CenTraS you work, under supervision, on your own project. You follow a personal programme of skills training, which is documented in an online logbook. You engage with your peers in regular research seminars and other events, and you attend public lectures. Research students in their second year and beyond may do a certain amount of teaching on the MA in Translation and the MSc in Specialised Translation.CenTraS currently has around 30 PhD students and several Visiting Research Students.• Current PhD Students
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				Gamer-generated Language and Localisation of Massively Multiplayer Online Games 
         
                        
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				2018-19 pathways:2018-19 pathways:
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The principal aim of this module is to give an understanding of the nature of translation and its significance as a cultural and historical force. The module is made up of three strands, comprised of translation theory, history and case studies. Classes on theoretical aspects consider different ways of conceptualizing and studying translation. The historical part investigates changing views of translation in the Western tradition over centuries, from St Jerome to Jacques Derrida. A series of case studies highlights particular topics and issues in the practice of translation; topics in previous years have included audio visual translation for opera and translating Somali poetry. By the end of the module you will have acquired a grasp of key concepts related to translation and its history, an appreciation of translation as a cultural phenomenon, and an ability to analyse translations from different viewpoints and investigate the associated theoretical and ethical issues.Credits: 30Assessment: Two 1,500 word essays and one 3,000 word essayModule convenor: Dr Geraldine BrodieLawrence Venuti, ed., The Translation Studies Reader, London & New York: Routledge, 2000, 3rd ed. 2012.Karin Littau and Piotr Kuhiwczak, eds., A Companion to Translation Studies, Clevedon: Multilingual Matters, 2007.Jeremy Munday, Introducing Translation Studies. Theories and Applications, London & New York: Routledge, 2001, 3rd ed. 2012.Anthony Pym, Exploring Translation Theories, London & New York: Routledge, 2010.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module consists of a series of lectures examining: roles of interpreters in interaction; interaction management in interpreter and remote-interpreter mediated events; the language product of interpreters; the prosody of interpreting; the pragmatic decisions made by interpreters; register in interpreting; interpreting and cognition; interpreting, fatigue and team working; interpreters and language directionality. Credits: 15Assessment: Students are assessed by course work (100%). The course work consists of either a 1,500 word essay analysing a 5-minute interpretation with an ELAN annotation, or a 3,000 word essay from a list of questions.Tutor: TBC
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module consists of a series of lectures examining: the historical development of interpreting; the influence of technology on interpreting provision; routes to professionalization of interpreters; conference interpreting provision, language status and institutions; community interpreting, interpreting as interaction and interpreting as a social practice; legislation, human rights and language politics; interpreting in the media, voice, in-vision and audio description. It aims to develop students' understanding of the different tensions and mechanism at play when interpreting is provided. Credits: 15Assessment: One 3,000 word essayTutor: TBC
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The module covers the use of different computer-based methodologies to improve translation output, in terms of both speed and accuracy. It aims to introduce you to the following activities and/or technologies, all of which are employed in the translation industry: terminology mining on the WWW, terminology management, machine translation and translation memory (covering the use of two different systems). Although it has an element of theory the module is largely practical in nature. The module will be taught via a weekly two-hour session in a computer cluster. Understanding and using Translation Technology II is a continuation of this module.Credits: 15Assessment: Report on project (2,500 words plus translation and supporting files)Tutor: Dr Mark ShuttleworthEITHER:Austermühl, Frank (2001) Electronic Tools for Translators, Manchester: St. Jerome Publishing.OR:Bowker, L. (2002) Computer-aided Translation Technology: A Practical Introduction, Ottawa: University of Ottawa Press.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module is a continuation of Translation Technology I. First of all, we will be covering a third translation memory system and considering the question of evaluating TM systems. Following that, the module moves on to look at techniques of terminology extraction, methodologies for localising software and web content, and a discussion of how to customise machine translation engines. Taken together, the two modules provide participants with a good overview of most types of translation technology. The module will be taught via a weekly two-hour session in a computer cluster. Most of these sessions will be practical in nature but there will be a small number of lecture-style presentations as well.Credits: 15Assessment: One 3,000 word essayModule convenor: Dr Mark ShuttleworthPrerequisite: TRTPG004 – Understanding and using Translation Technology IIn collaboration with:
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The module will consist of practical translation exercises covering a wide range of texts and registers. It aims to develop linguistic and interpretative skills at a highly advanced level as well as to enhance the understanding of the translation process itself.Credits: 30Assessment: Students are assessed by coursework (50%) and an unseen 3-hour desk exam (50%). The coursework consists of two 1,500 word assignments.Tutor: TBA
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The curriculum for this module will be a wide one, encompassing not only translation practices as they are implemented on the WWW but also the social context that surrounds it. Thus topics to be covered will include the history of internet translation; the impact on working practices of on-line machine translation and other translation software and resources; crowdsourced translation; the Wikipedia phenomenon; translation blogs and translation portals; fansubbing; WWW localisation. This will be a largely theoretical module but with a practical dimension. It is anticipated that it will include a certain amount of research content, not least because relatively little has been written on a number of the topics being included.Credits: 15Assessment: Two 1,500-word essays, the second of which can have a practical elementModule convenor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module studies the historical development of the theory and practice of translation through an investigation of the role of key individuals and texts significant to literary translation from the Classical tradition to the present. Each session will explore the creative tension between translation and reception studies by examining historical engagements with translation and discussing their relevance to modern thinking around literary translation. The
module is taught by specialists from a range of departments, including the
Centre for Translation Studies, English, Greek and Latin, Hebrew and Jewish
Studies, School of Slavonic and East European Languages, and School of European
Languages, Culture and Society. Sessions vary annually subject to staff
availability. Example topics include:This
module is open to students within the Centre for Multidisciplinary and
Intercultural Inquiry and Greek and Latin. Students from other programmes may
contact the convenor to enquire about availability.Credits: TRTPG009: 20 credits (intercollegiate modules), TRTPG010: 15 creditsAssessment: TRTPG009: 5,000 word essay, TRTPG010: 3,000 word essayTutor: VariousModule convenor: Dr Geraldine Brodie
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module supplements the TRANG001 Language and Translation core module in Term 1. It explores theoretical approaches to translation, investigating key topics in depth, and examines the interdisciplinary contexts of theoretical engagements with translation, with particular reference to the application of philosophical and critical theory and the examination of translation ethics and poetics.  Term: 2Credits: 15Assessment: 3000-word essay (100%)Module convenor: Professor Theo Hermans
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The MA module in Translating Literary Culture examines the theory and practice of translating text-based literary materials, broadly-defined. The module discusses theoretical engagements with translating literary culture, including notions of voice and style, contextualizing source and target literary systems, and ideological and other issues in the selection and conduct of translations. The module is taught and assessed in English and welcomes contributions from all languages and cultures. Some practical translation into and out of English is incorporated, allowing students to reflect on the processes of translation and comment on the implications of translating these various text-types from both practical and theoretical perspectives.Term: 1Credits: 15Assessment: 500-word annotated-translation (10%), 500-word translation commentary (plus supporting translation) (20%) and 1500-word essay (70%)Module convenor: Dr Geraldine Brodie
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module will have clearly defined theoretical and practical elements. The theoretical part will introduce students to the use of corpora for studying language and translation, with the following major focuses: types of language corpus and approaches to analysis; accessing and building corpora; the Web as Corpus; corpus linguistics and machine translation training data. Most of the practical sessions will involve using the Sketch Engine on-line lexical analysis software to carry out corpus analysis. There will also be some work with data visualisation and the opportunity to experiment with a range of digital methods to analyse textual and other kinds of data relevant to translation.Term: 2Credits: 15Assessment: 1000-word essay (30%) and 2500-word project report (70%)Tutor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The MA Dissertation (Translation Research Pathway), the central feature of the MA in Translation (Research Pathway), is 18,000 words long, written in English and submitted at the end of the programme (beginning of September). The Dissertation (Research) is supervised by a member of CenTraS, CMII or another member of UCL staff in consultation with the Translation MA programme convenor, and addresses a translation studies topic agreed with the supervisor and programme convenor. The dissertation usually focuses on a topic related to the compulsory modules Language and Translation and Translation Theory, and may also refer to other modules studied by the student during the programme, alongside independent research conducted under the guidance of the dissertation supervisor. The dissertation must be a critical essay, and not an annotated translation.Credits: 90Assessment: 18,000 word dissertation
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				  The dissertation, of 12,000 words in length, can consist either of an annotated translation (in or out of English; maximum 60% translation, minimum 40% introduction and commentary) or of a critical discussion of theoretical, practical or historical aspects of translation. You are free to choose the topic of your dissertation, subject to approval by the MA programme’s academic coordinator. Preparation for the dissertation involves a research skills course. The dissertation itself is written under one-to-one supervision and submitted at the beginning of September. Credits: 60Assessment: One 12,000 word dissertation
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				
				    
				 Inside the Translation Industry is a two day programme to provide you with useful ideas about how to move into the next step of your professional career. These seminars will help you to get a better understanding of the areas you could get involved in when you finish the MSc course. Sessions are delivered by translation professionals from different backgrounds, institutions and companies, including past students of the MSc, who will talk about their areas of specialisation: audiovisual translation, specialised translation, freelancing, transcreation, accessibility, project management, localisation, CVs, and much more.This is a not-for-credit series of seminars and you are expected to attend all sessions.Convenor: Marga Navarrete
                   
				In this module, students engage with aspects of linguistic theory that
are relevant to translation, and also theoretical ideas about translation that
have a direct impact on translation practice. The module provides an introduction to the
sociolinguistic relationship between language and translatorial activities
(including references to interactional interpreting), as perceived within the
discipline of Translation Studies. Early discussions and debates on the
principles of equivalence, loyalty, and faithfulness are presented in relation
to the professional impact and effect of the theoretical thinking, moving onto
professional definitions of adequacy/good enough, and ethics of translation. By incorporating the
study of language with a close look at various more specifically
translation-related topics, this module aims to focus on some of the
theoretical issues that translators need to confront. The module rests on an
understanding of communicative acts as studied in current sociolinguistics. The
module introduces the theoretical study of language mediation and the symbiotic
relationship between language and translation. This is a core module. The
syllabus is research-informed, and whilst being annually reviewed, it is likely
to include references to such topics as translation terminology, grammar
and meaning, translation and culture, translation theory, and descriptive
translation studies.Term: 1Credits: 15Assessment: 3000-word Essay (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				In this module you apply your theoretical and conceptual background of
translation to a very practical approach of using several translation
technology applications that are used in the translation industry. These tools
include terminology management and translation memory systems. The hands-on
experience with a range of translation tools happens in a dedicated Translation
Lab. Applications include the following: SDL Trados Multiterm
Desktop 2015, SDL Trados Studio 2015, memoQ and a few selected cloud-based systems.· Credit: 30· Term: 1, 2 and 3· Assessment: Translation technology test (40%); Group project (60%).· Module Convenor: Dr Christophe Declercq
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces you to the fascinating professional practice of
making audiovisual material accessible to people with sensory impairments. You
will learn about subtitling for the deaf and the hard-of-hearing (SDH) and
audio description for the blind and the partially sighted (AD). You will cover
areas such as legislation, history and present situation of SDH and AD,
teletext versus SDH for DVD, subtitling and audio describing for children and
adults, live versus pre-recorded SDH and AD, economic and professional aspects,
and the conventions used on screen. You will develop subtitling and audio
description skills in a variety of registers and styles by
translating programmes from various sources (films, corporate videos,
documentaries) and covering a broad range of specialised genres and media
issues. You will produce your own work with appropriate software
and equipment. The module is taught in English and all the activities are carried out
in English.· Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment: Subtitling project (50%); Audio description project (50%)· Module Convenor: Dr Soledad Zárate
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module is designed to cover a variety of topics concerning the use
of computer systems to present, manipulate, extract or translate information
expressed in natural (i.e. human) language. Areas likely to be covered include
machine translation, post-editing, controlled language and speech recognition. You will
acquire a basic understanding of the technology behind language engineering
applications, and learn to use and evaluate different tools and technologies.
Once again, this module has a strong hands-on focus.· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment: Report (30%); Project (70%)· Module Convenor: Dr Rocío Baños-Piñero
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces students to the specific context and
practices of localisation (software, website, videogames). The module provides
students with an awareness of how the localisation industry works, and which
processes are involved in a typical project. Students explore different
localisation features through a number of practical sessions. The objective is
to provide students with the practical skills necessary to develop further
experience in a professional localisation environment. This module
is not language-specific: it is taught in English and all the
activities are carried out in English.  · Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment: Project (100%)· Module Convenor: Ms Marga Navarrete
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module
will provide you with the professional skills you will need to work in the
world of translation, both as a freelance translator and as an employee of an
institution or translation agency. Through a combination of lectures, seminars,
and project work, you will be exposed to prototypical situations you are likely
to encounter in your future career. The module will cover topics such as
translator ethics, project and client management, customer service, and
business skills. You will work on your own translation projects as part of a
team and receive constructive and relevant feedback on your performance.
Teaching will be interactive and feature real-world examples from many areas of
the industry.  · Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment:
Project management portfolio (100%)· Module
Convenor: Dr Louisa Desilla
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces students to the fascinating professional practice of making audiovisual material accessible to people with sensory impairments. Students will learn about audio description for the blind and the partially sighted (AD). The areas covered include: legislation, history and present situation of AD, audio describing for children and adults, live versus pre-recorded AD, economic and professional aspects, and the conventions used on screen. Through a range of carefully chosen examples and exercises, students will not only develop confidence and skills in producing scripts for audio description, but also broaden their awareness about the needs of these people and of the grammatical and syntactic features of the language.Credit: 15Term: 1Assessment: 1500-word assessed audio description (written description only, no recording) and 1500-word commentary (100%)Module Convenor: Louise Fryer
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces students to the fascinating professional practice of making audiovisual material accessible to people with sensory impairments. Students will learn about subtitling for the deaf and the hard of hearing (SDH). The areas covered include: legislation, history and present situation of SDH, subtitling for children and adults, live versus pre-recorded SDH, economic and professional aspects, and the conventions used on screen. Through a range of carefully chosen examples and exercises, students will not only develop confidence and skills in SDH, but also broaden their awareness about the needs of these people and of the grammatical and syntactic features of the language.Credit: 15Term: 2Assessment: 100-word subtitling project and 1500-word commentary (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Soledad Zárate
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This
module will prepare you to work professionally and reflectively in the highly
specialised translation market, providing you with the relevant competences to
translate scientific and technical texts. You will be introduced to scientific
and technical translation through lectures and language-specific, interactive
seminars. After an introductory session on the characteristics of scientific
and technical translation, you will be split into language-specific groups,
where you will translate a wide range of specialised texts belonging to
scientific and technical domains (to include popular science articles,
scientific journal papers, scientific reports, proposals, user guides, product
documentation, patents, technical specifications, etc.).· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment:
Translation test (50%); Translation project (50%)· Module
Convenor: Dr Federico Federici
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This
module will prepare you to work professionally and reflectively in the highly
specialised translation market, providing you with the relevant competences to
translate medical texts. You will be introduced to medical translation through
lectures and language-specific, interactive seminars. After an introductory
session on the characteristics of medical translation, you will be split into
language-specific groups, where you will translate a wide range of specialised
texts belonging to medical/pharmaceutical domains (to include patient
information leaflets, clinical trials, case reports, healthcare documents,
informed consent forms, pharmaceutical reports, etc.)· Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment:
Translation test (50%); Translation project (50%)· Module
Convenor: Emmanouela Patiniotaki
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces you to Audiovisual Translation (AVT) practices in
general, and offers you an in-depth knowledge in the field of subtitling.
During the lectures and seminars, you will cover areas such as history and
present situation of subtitling, pros and cons of subtitling versus other AVT
modes, semiotics of subtitling, conventions used on screen, and economic and
professional aspects of AVT. You will develop subtitling skills in a variety of
registers and styles by translating texts and programmes of an audiovisual
nature drawn from various sources (films, corporate videos, documentaries) and
covering a broad range of specialised genres and media issues. You will produce
your own subtitles with appropriate subtitling equipment· Credit: 15· Term:1· Assessment: Subtitling test (50%); Subtitling project (50%)· Module Convenor: Prof. Jorge Díaz-Cintas
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces you to the professional activity of translating
audiovisual material for voiceover and dubbing. During the lectures and
seminars, you will cover areas such as the history and present situation of
revoicing modes in Audiovisual Translation (AVT), the conventions used in the
profession, common translation issues and strategies, and economic and
professional aspects of voiceover/dubbing. You will develop voiceover and
dubbing skills in a variety of registers and styles by translating texts and
programmes of an audiovisual nature drawn from various sources (documentaries, TV
series, animation, films) and covering a broad range of specialised genres and
media issues. You will produce your own translations taking into consideration
relevant conventions.· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment: Test (50%); Project (50%)· Module Convenor: Dr Rocío Baños-Piñero 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The module provides an overview of the multiple tasks that language mediators may be asked to perform in scenarios of crisis communication. The term translation here indicates any form of language mediation as deployed in crises – as opposite to discipline-specific terminology – and includes both written translation and oral interpreting as specific roles blur when evolving crises demand immediate responses with limited resources. The module will familiarize students with operational issues, existing aid technologies, and approaches used by language mediators in enabling communication in such scenarios as multilingual medical emergencies, disaster response units, pandemic information, terrorist and inter-operational response teams. The module delivers intensive training in supporting multilingual communication and peer-support in dealing with unpredictable circumstances, including operating in unpredictable language combinations. The module is driven by a problem-solving approach and is not language-specific. Discussions, role plays, and analysis of the constraints in ensuring quality of communication as currently documented in the literature on crisis communication will enable students to understand the role of translating in crises. The module will focus on ways of deploying automated technologies in order to diminish communication times in multilingual environments so as to have more time to assessment procedures that monitor quality of communication in crises. Currently, ad-hoc responses characterize most crisis translation activities; the ad-hoc situations will be contrasted with study of potentially coordinated and concerted forms of translation support as embedded in emergency planning. Term: 2Credits: 15Assessment: 2000-word scenario test (50%) and 3 hour technological test (50%)Module Convenor: Dr Federico M. Federici 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation Technologies 1 module is taught in Autumn Term (Term 1) and is a pre-requisite for Translation Technologies 2 taught in Term 2. The module enables students to master computer-aided translation (CAT) tools through presentations and practical seminars. Students are taught to use relevant software packages independently to perform translations into their first language and to assess functionalities of the applications from a language-independent perspective. Fundamental concepts, principles and workflows are introduced using specific translation technology tools. In addition, students become acquainted with the use of technology to increase efficiency as understood in the translation and localisation industry: The emphasis is on industry-standard translation memory functionalities such as Wordfast Anywhere and SDL Trados. Through hands-on exercises students develop an awareness of the use of translation technology in the industry.The module is compulsory for both MSc Specialised Translation students (all routes) and for MA Translation students taking the Translation and Culture route.Term: 1Credits: 15Assessment: 2 hour test (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Christophe Declercq
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation Technologies 2 module runs over 14 weeks during Spring Term (Term 2) and Summer Term (Term 3), due to the need for hands-on exercises and the time students need to digest information and learn how to use two different and complex technological tools efficiently. Mastering computer-aided translation (CAT) tools happens at consecutive stages, each taking a number of seminars based on problem solving exercises as well as tutorial sessions with guided activities overseen by the tutor. The module builds on students’ knowledge and skills acquired in the pre-requisite module Translation Technologies 1 (taught in Term 1). In Translation Technologies 2, students focus on mastering advanced features of the most frequently-used translation memory functionalities in industry-standard software packages such as SDL Trados and memoQ. Through varied hands-on experience students develop an awareness of the use of translation technology in the translation industry.The module is compulsory for MSc Specialised Translation students on the Scientific, Technical and Medical pathway and optional for students on the other MSc Specialised Translation pathways, and for MA Translation students. Pre-requisite: Translation Technologies 1Credit: 15Term: 2 and 3Assessment: 2000-word essay plus supporting files (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Christophe Declercq
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module
introduces different modes of oral interpreting, such as Liaison, Public
Service, Consecutive and Simultaneous Interpreting. Through lectures, seminars,
discussions and project work, you will be exposed to issues and challenges that
you are likely to encounter in your future career. You will also develop
preparation and note-taking skills. Topics to be covered include the code of
conduct, the role of the interpreter, cultural issues, and other elements
essential for professional interpreters.· Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment:
Portfolio (100%)· Module
Convenor:  Ms Miko Yoshiko Shimizu 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module is designed to introduce essential interpreting skills and
techniques in liaison, public service and consecutive interpreting that are
required to embark on a career as a professional interpreter in this particular
field. It aims to maximise your potential to become a professional interpreter
by providing opportunities to practise interpreting skills in various contexts
in specific language pairs. You will then reflect on your performance in order
to develop and improve your interpreting skills. The module is taught through
lectures, followed by practical seminars.· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment: Liaison Interpreting Test (50%);
Consecutive Interpreting Test (50%)· Module
Convenor: Dr Claire Shih  
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 Once the teaching finishes in May, you will spend the remaining part of
the course (to the beginning of September) researching and writing a
dissertation of a max. of 12,000 words in length. You can opt for a theoretical
or a hands-on approach and you will be assigned a supervisor. Among others, research areas
might include aspects of translation theory, translation technology,
audiovisual translation, corpus linguistics, specialised translation and localisation.Credit: 60Assessment: Dissertation of 12,000 words max. (100%) 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This MSc is designed to provide first-class training in audiovisual 
translation and accessibility to the media. The programme offers you the
 opportunity to develop your translation and language skills, to deepen 
your understanding of the workings of language as an essential tool of 
communication and to gain vital experience in the rapidly developing 
areas of audiovisual translation and translation technology.CenTraS offer the following language combinations for this pathway: View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university, or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard, and proven linguistic ability in one of the language pairs available within the programme.We can consider applicants to the MSc pathways intending to work from English into Arabic, Spanish, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Italian and Russian, and French into English until 15 July 2017. Unfortunately we are unable to consider applications for other language combinations for 2017 entry. Please contact Dr Federico M Federici for information prior to applying, f.m.federici@ucl.ac.ukIf your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MSc is suitable for both practitioners and recent graduates looking to specialise in the fields of audiovisual translation, accessibility to the media and translation technology, as well as for those aiming for a research degree and/or academic career.Due to the highly competitive nature of this programme and the limited places available, offers will not be made until February 2018 at the earliest.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				TRANG001 – Language & TranslationTRANG024 – SubtitlingTRANG018 – Audio Description for the Blind and the Partially SightedTRANG028 – Translation Technologies ITRANG019 – Subtitling for the Deaf and the Hard-of-HearingTRANG025 – Translating for Voiceover & DubbingTRANG099 – DissertationInside the Translation Industry Choose a total of two modules from the options below:TRANG015 – LocalisationTRANG014 – Language & AutomationTRANG017 – Professional Skills for TranslatorsTRANG020 – Scientific and Technical TranslationTRANG026 – Topics in Audiovisual Translation (not running 2017/18)TRANG029 – Translation Technologies II (Terms 2-3)
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This MSc is designed to provide first-class training in specialised 
translation with interpreting. The programme offers you the opportunity 
to develop your translation, interpreting and language skills, to deepen
 your understanding of the workings of language as an essential tool of 
communication and to gain vital experience in the rapidly developing 
area of translation technology.CenTraS currently offer the following language combinations for this pathway:From English into: Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Russian and Turkish. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university, or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard, and proven linguistic ability in one of the language pairs available within the programme. From English into Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Russian and Turkish.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MSc is suitable for both practitioners and recent graduates looking to specialise in the fields of translation, interpreting and translation technology, as well as for those aiming for a research degree and/or academic career.Due to the highly competitive nature of this programme and the limited places available, offers will not be made until February 2018 at the earliest.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				TRANG001 – Language & TranslationTRANG028 – Translation Technologies ITRANG030 – General InterpretingTRANG020 – Scientific & Technical TranslationTRANG031 – Liaison & Consecutive InterpretingTRANG099 – DissertationInside the Translation IndustryTRTPG002 The Interaction and Language Management of Interpreting (Term 2)TRTPG003 The Historical and Social Context of Interpreting (Term 1)  Choose a total of two optional modules:TRANG015 – LocalisationTRANG018 - Audio Description for the Blind and the Partially SightedTRANG021 – Medical TranslationTRANG024 – SubtitlingTRTPG003 – The Historical and Social Context of Interpreting (if not already included in core credits)TRANG014 – Language & AutomationTRANG017 – Professional Skills for TranslatorsTRANG025 – Translating for Voiceover & DubbingTRANG027 – Crisis TranslationTRANG029 – Translation Technologies II (Terms 2-3)TRTPG002 – The Interaction and Language Management of Interpreting (if not already included in core credits)TRTPG043 Corpora for TranslationIt is recommended to choose modules that create a balanced timetable over each term.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This MSc is designed to provide first-class training in 
specialised translation in the scientific, technical and medical areas. 
The programme will equip you with the skills needed for professional 
work in the translation industry and for further research in translation
 studies. You will develop translation skills in a variety of 
registers and styles by translating a wide range of scientific, 
technical and medical texts: scientific reports, popular science 
articles, peer-reviewed articles, healthcare documents, clinical case 
studies, user guides, and technical specifications, among others.CenTraS currently offer the following language combinations for this pathway: View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university, or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard, and proven linguistic ability in one of the language pairs available within the programme. From English into Arabic, Bulgarian, Chinese, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Thai, and Turkish.From French, German or Spanish into EnglishIf your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MSc is suitable for both practitioners and recent graduates looking to specialise in the fields covered by the programme (e.g. scientific, medical, technical translation and translation technology), as well as for those aiming for a research degree and/or academic career.Due to the highly competitive nature of this programme and the limited places available, offers will not be made until February 2018 at the earliest.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				TRANG001 – Language & TranslationTRANG021 – Medical TranslationTRANG028 – Translation Technologies ITRANG014 – Language & AutomationTRANG020 – Scientific & Technical TranslationTRANG029 – Translation Technologies II (Terms 2-3)TRANG099 – DissertationInside the Translation Industry Choose a total of two optional modules:TRANG015 – LocalisationTRANG018 – Audio Description for the Blind and the Partially SightedTRANG024 – SubtitlingTRANG017 – Professional Skills for TranslatorsTRANG019 – Subtitling for the Deaf and the Hard-of-HearingTRANG025 – Translating for Voiceover & DubbingTRANG026 – Topics in Audiovisual Translation (not running 2017/18)TRANG027 – Crisis TranslationTRTPG041 – Translation TheoryTRTPG043 Corpora for TranslationIt is recommended to choose modules that create a balanced timetable over each term.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation and Culture pathway of the MA Translation enables you to focus on your practical language, translation and technology skills, with the option of studying an additional language, while developing a comprehensive understanding of the nature of translation. In this multilingual environment, you will build international networks and the language skills to enhance your employability in today’s multicultural workplace. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for graduates with a language and culture degree who wish to develop practical translation skills in more than one language, along with an understanding of theoretical aspects of translation, for professional development or further research in this field. A sound knowledge of at least one language other than English is essential.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation and Culture pathway consists of 180 credits. The diet is comprised of a 60 credit dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory taught modules and 90 credits of optional taught modules.Choose a total of 90 credits of optional modules from the list below.CenTraS modules:Language modules including Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian languages, Spanish (two languages, up to 60 credits in total):Specialised Translation MSc modules (up to 30 credits, in addition to Translation Technologies):CMII modules (up to 30 credits)Optional modules are subject to availability and language prerequisites where applicable. It is strongly recommended to choose a balanced timetable over the two teaching terms.  This programme allows flexibility within certain parameters that need to be discussed with the programme convenor. Module selection needs to be approved by the programme convenor at the start of the academic year.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Research pathway of the Translation MA in the Centre for Translation Studies enables you to focus on a specific interest in translation and intercultural studies under specialist supervision, developing superior research and writing abilities. You can also choose from a range of modules to enhance your language, translation and technology skills. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for graduates in a language and culture subject who wish to conduct an in-depth study of a specific topic in translation and intercultural studies and develop an understanding of theoretical and practical aspects of translation, for professional development or further research in this field. A sound knowledge of at least one language other than English is essential.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Research pathway consists of 180 credits. The diet is comprised of a 90 credit dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory taught modules and 60 credits of optional taught modules.Choose a total of 60 credits of optional modules from the list below.CenTraS modules:Language modules including Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian languages, Spanish (one language, up to 30 credits):Specialised Translation MSc modules (up to 15 credits, in addition to Translation Technologies):CMII modules (up to 30 credits)Optional modules are subject to availability and language prerequisites where applicable. It is strongly recommended to choose a balanced timetable over the two teaching terms. This programme allows flexibility within certain parameters that need to be discussed with the programme convenor. Module selection needs to be approved by the programme convenor at the start of the academic year.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The Translation Studies pathway of the MA in Translation enables you to advance your practical language, translation and technology skills while developing a comprehensive understanding of translation in social, cultural and historical contexts. It brings together students from a wide range of languages and nationalities, generating international networks and the language skills to enhance your employability in today’s multicultural workplace. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for graduates with a language and culture degree who wish to develop practical translation skills alongside an understanding of theoretical aspects of translation, for professional development or further research in this field. A sound knowledge of at least one language other than English is essential.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation Studies pathway consists of 180 credits. The diet is comprised of a 60 credit dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory taught modules and 90 credits of optional taught modules. Choose a total of 90 credits of optional modules from the list below.CenTraS modules:Language modules including Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian languages, Spanish (one language, up to 30 credits):Specialised Translation MSc modules (up to 15 credits, in addition to Translation Technologies):CMII modules (up to 30 credits)Optional modules are subject to availability and language prerequisites where applicable. It is strongly recommended to choose a balanced timetable over the two teaching terms. This programme allows flexibility within certain parameters that need to be discussed with the programme convenor. Module selection needs to be approved by the programme convenor at the start of the academic year.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The Translation Theory and Practice MA is taught by staff from a wide 
range of departments at UCL. Students benefit from a flexible programme 
of study that allows for various pathways and can include practical 
translation work involving particular language combinations, modules on 
electronic communication and translation technology, and more 
theoretical translation studies. The dissertation either consists of a translation from or into English,
or of a study of existing translations.Located in the heart of multicultural London, UCL provides a uniquely rich environment for studying and researching translation in all its facets, taught by specialist translation staff with a divers range of research interests including translation and the web, theatre translation, and Chinese translation.The MA is truly interdisciplinary, with access to experts in an unrivalled variety of languages and disciplines from across Europe and further afield. This allows students to customise their own programmes in relation to their language competencies and other academic and professional interests.UCL translation students are highly valued by the translation industry, with workshops and networking events organised during the year. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply.  There is an ever-growing demand for highly-trained commercial, literary and other types of translators in the private as well as in the public sector and in international organisations, in Britain and abroad. Other career paths include the media, publishing and education.
 

   Find out more

 
September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The MA programme requires a total of 180 credits. The
 core modules are compulsory and constitute of the required 90 credits. The other 90 credits can be chosen from the list of modules below, subject to availability and departmental approval.There may be certain language or other 
prerequisites for optional modules. Please note that some modules fill up very quickly, whilst others are sometimes withdrawn according to student demand, so places cannot be guaranteed.If you wish to take any of any of the modules above beginning HEBRG*, HISTG*, PLING*, SEESG*), please contact the relevant departmental administrator in the 
first instance.  If you are interested in taking modules from the Department of Information 
Studies (codes beginning INSTG), please contact Kerstin Michaels in the first instance.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				Research students undertake original research leading to the submission of a thesis. They work under the supervision of a Principal and a Secondary Supervisor. They do not normally attend taught courses but follow a tailor-made programme of skills training and personal development courses. To be admitted as a research student you need a Master’s degree with a good grade in a relevant subject. All research students at UCL initially register as MPhil students and, provided they have made satisfactory progress, can upgrade to PhD status after a year (or two years for part-time students). Full-time PhD study normally takes a minimum of three years, part-time study a minimum of five years. CenTraS invites applications from suitably qualified students wishing to undertake research on any aspect of translation.If you wish to apply for admission to UCL as a research student in translation studies, you should, in the first instance, and before you complete the UCL online application form, contact the CenTraS Director, Professor Theo Hermans, with (a) details of your educational background, (b) an outline research project proposal, and (c) an indication of how you propose to fund your study.Information on the application process, general entry requirements, tuition fees, accommodation and the UCL Doctoral School can be found on the Doctoral School website. Unlike taught programmes, which start in September, a research degree can be started at any time of the year.UCL research students have access to a wealth of library and other resources. UCL’s own libraries cover all subjects and almost all European languages. Beyond UCL, and within easy walking distance, there are the libraries of the University of London, the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) and the British Library.CenTraS research students can make use of a dedicated cluster room (the TransCluster) housing 60 computers with specialist software. They share a common room with other research students. As a research student in CenTraS you work, under supervision, on your own project. You follow a personal programme of skills training, which is documented in an online logbook. You engage with your peers in regular research seminars and other events, and you attend public lectures. Research students in their second year and beyond may do a certain amount of teaching on the MA in Translation and the MSc in Specialised Translation.CenTraS currently has around 30 PhD students and several Visiting Research Students.• Current PhD Students
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				Gamer-generated Language and Localisation of Massively Multiplayer Online Games 
                                      
				    
				The principal aim of this module is to give an understanding of the nature of translation and its significance as a cultural and historical force. The module is made up of three strands, comprised of translation theory, history and case studies. Classes on theoretical aspects consider different ways of conceptualizing and studying translation. The historical part investigates changing views of translation in the Western tradition over centuries, from St Jerome to Jacques Derrida. A series of case studies highlights particular topics and issues in the practice of translation; topics in previous years have included audio visual translation for opera and translating Somali poetry. By the end of the module you will have acquired a grasp of key concepts related to translation and its history, an appreciation of translation as a cultural phenomenon, and an ability to analyse translations from different viewpoints and investigate the associated theoretical and ethical issues.Credits: 30Assessment: Two 1,500 word essays and one 3,000 word essayModule convenor: Dr Geraldine BrodieLawrence Venuti, ed., The Translation Studies Reader, London & New York: Routledge, 2000, 3rd ed. 2012.Karin Littau and Piotr Kuhiwczak, eds., A Companion to Translation Studies, Clevedon: Multilingual Matters, 2007.Jeremy Munday, Introducing Translation Studies. Theories and Applications, London & New York: Routledge, 2001, 3rd ed. 2012.Anthony Pym, Exploring Translation Theories, London & New York: Routledge, 2010.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module consists of a series of lectures examining: roles of interpreters in interaction; interaction management in interpreter and remote-interpreter mediated events; the language product of interpreters; the prosody of interpreting; the pragmatic decisions made by interpreters; register in interpreting; interpreting and cognition; interpreting, fatigue and team working; interpreters and language directionality. Credits: 15Assessment: Students are assessed by course work (100%). The course work consists of either a 1,500 word essay analysing a 5-minute interpretation with an ELAN annotation, or a 3,000 word essay from a list of questions.Tutor: TBC
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module consists of a series of lectures examining: the historical development of interpreting; the influence of technology on interpreting provision; routes to professionalization of interpreters; conference interpreting provision, language status and institutions; community interpreting, interpreting as interaction and interpreting as a social practice; legislation, human rights and language politics; interpreting in the media, voice, in-vision and audio description. It aims to develop students' understanding of the different tensions and mechanism at play when interpreting is provided. Credits: 15Assessment: One 3,000 word essayTutor: TBC
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The module covers the use of different computer-based methodologies to improve translation output, in terms of both speed and accuracy. It aims to introduce you to the following activities and/or technologies, all of which are employed in the translation industry: terminology mining on the WWW, terminology management, machine translation and translation memory (covering the use of two different systems). Although it has an element of theory the module is largely practical in nature. The module will be taught via a weekly two-hour session in a computer cluster. Understanding and using Translation Technology II is a continuation of this module.Credits: 15Assessment: Report on project (2,500 words plus translation and supporting files)Tutor: Dr Mark ShuttleworthEITHER:Austermühl, Frank (2001) Electronic Tools for Translators, Manchester: St. Jerome Publishing.OR:Bowker, L. (2002) Computer-aided Translation Technology: A Practical Introduction, Ottawa: University of Ottawa Press.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module is a continuation of Translation Technology I. First of all, we will be covering a third translation memory system and considering the question of evaluating TM systems. Following that, the module moves on to look at techniques of terminology extraction, methodologies for localising software and web content, and a discussion of how to customise machine translation engines. Taken together, the two modules provide participants with a good overview of most types of translation technology. The module will be taught via a weekly two-hour session in a computer cluster. Most of these sessions will be practical in nature but there will be a small number of lecture-style presentations as well.Credits: 15Assessment: One 3,000 word essayModule convenor: Dr Mark ShuttleworthPrerequisite: TRTPG004 – Understanding and using Translation Technology IIn collaboration with:
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The module will consist of practical translation exercises covering a wide range of texts and registers. It aims to develop linguistic and interpretative skills at a highly advanced level as well as to enhance the understanding of the translation process itself.Credits: 30Assessment: Students are assessed by coursework (50%) and an unseen 3-hour desk exam (50%). The coursework consists of two 1,500 word assignments.Tutor: TBA
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The curriculum for this module will be a wide one, encompassing not only translation practices as they are implemented on the WWW but also the social context that surrounds it. Thus topics to be covered will include the history of internet translation; the impact on working practices of on-line machine translation and other translation software and resources; crowdsourced translation; the Wikipedia phenomenon; translation blogs and translation portals; fansubbing; WWW localisation. This will be a largely theoretical module but with a practical dimension. It is anticipated that it will include a certain amount of research content, not least because relatively little has been written on a number of the topics being included.Credits: 15Assessment: Two 1,500-word essays, the second of which can have a practical elementModule convenor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module studies the historical development of the theory and practice of translation through an investigation of the role of key individuals and texts significant to literary translation from the Classical tradition to the present. Each session will explore the creative tension between translation and reception studies by examining historical engagements with translation and discussing their relevance to modern thinking around literary translation. The
module is taught by specialists from a range of departments, including the
Centre for Translation Studies, English, Greek and Latin, Hebrew and Jewish
Studies, School of Slavonic and East European Languages, and School of European
Languages, Culture and Society. Sessions vary annually subject to staff
availability. Example topics include:This
module is open to students within the Centre for Multidisciplinary and
Intercultural Inquiry and Greek and Latin. Students from other programmes may
contact the convenor to enquire about availability.Credits: TRTPG009: 20 credits (intercollegiate modules), TRTPG010: 15 creditsAssessment: TRTPG009: 5,000 word essay, TRTPG010: 3,000 word essayTutor: VariousModule convenor: Dr Geraldine Brodie
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module supplements the TRANG001 Language and Translation core module in Term 1. It explores theoretical approaches to translation, investigating key topics in depth, and examines the interdisciplinary contexts of theoretical engagements with translation, with particular reference to the application of philosophical and critical theory and the examination of translation ethics and poetics.  Term: 2Credits: 15Assessment: 3000-word essay (100%)Module convenor: Professor Theo Hermans
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The MA module in Translating Literary Culture examines the theory and practice of translating text-based literary materials, broadly-defined. The module discusses theoretical engagements with translating literary culture, including notions of voice and style, contextualizing source and target literary systems, and ideological and other issues in the selection and conduct of translations. The module is taught and assessed in English and welcomes contributions from all languages and cultures. Some practical translation into and out of English is incorporated, allowing students to reflect on the processes of translation and comment on the implications of translating these various text-types from both practical and theoretical perspectives.Term: 1Credits: 15Assessment: 500-word annotated-translation (10%), 500-word translation commentary (plus supporting translation) (20%) and 1500-word essay (70%)Module convenor: Dr Geraldine Brodie
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This module will have clearly defined theoretical and practical elements. The theoretical part will introduce students to the use of corpora for studying language and translation, with the following major focuses: types of language corpus and approaches to analysis; accessing and building corpora; the Web as Corpus; corpus linguistics and machine translation training data. Most of the practical sessions will involve using the Sketch Engine on-line lexical analysis software to carry out corpus analysis. There will also be some work with data visualisation and the opportunity to experiment with a range of digital methods to analyse textual and other kinds of data relevant to translation.Term: 2Credits: 15Assessment: 1000-word essay (30%) and 2500-word project report (70%)Tutor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The MA Dissertation (Translation Research Pathway), the central feature of the MA in Translation (Research Pathway), is 18,000 words long, written in English and submitted at the end of the programme (beginning of September). The Dissertation (Research) is supervised by a member of CenTraS, CMII or another member of UCL staff in consultation with the Translation MA programme convenor, and addresses a translation studies topic agreed with the supervisor and programme convenor. The dissertation usually focuses on a topic related to the compulsory modules Language and Translation and Translation Theory, and may also refer to other modules studied by the student during the programme, alongside independent research conducted under the guidance of the dissertation supervisor. The dissertation must be a critical essay, and not an annotated translation.Credits: 90Assessment: 18,000 word dissertation
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				  The dissertation, of 12,000 words in length, can consist either of an annotated translation (in or out of English; maximum 60% translation, minimum 40% introduction and commentary) or of a critical discussion of theoretical, practical or historical aspects of translation. You are free to choose the topic of your dissertation, subject to approval by the MA programme’s academic coordinator. Preparation for the dissertation involves a research skills course. The dissertation itself is written under one-to-one supervision and submitted at the beginning of September. Credits: 60Assessment: One 12,000 word dissertation
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				
				    
				 Inside the Translation Industry is a two day programme to provide you with useful ideas about how to move into the next step of your professional career. These seminars will help you to get a better understanding of the areas you could get involved in when you finish the MSc course. Sessions are delivered by translation professionals from different backgrounds, institutions and companies, including past students of the MSc, who will talk about their areas of specialisation: audiovisual translation, specialised translation, freelancing, transcreation, accessibility, project management, localisation, CVs, and much more.This is a not-for-credit series of seminars and you are expected to attend all sessions.Convenor: Marga Navarrete
                                    
				    
				In this module, students engage with aspects of linguistic theory that
are relevant to translation, and also theoretical ideas about translation that
have a direct impact on translation practice. The module provides an introduction to the
sociolinguistic relationship between language and translatorial activities
(including references to interactional interpreting), as perceived within the
discipline of Translation Studies. Early discussions and debates on the
principles of equivalence, loyalty, and faithfulness are presented in relation
to the professional impact and effect of the theoretical thinking, moving onto
professional definitions of adequacy/good enough, and ethics of translation. By incorporating the
study of language with a close look at various more specifically
translation-related topics, this module aims to focus on some of the
theoretical issues that translators need to confront. The module rests on an
understanding of communicative acts as studied in current sociolinguistics. The
module introduces the theoretical study of language mediation and the symbiotic
relationship between language and translation. This is a core module. The
syllabus is research-informed, and whilst being annually reviewed, it is likely
to include references to such topics as translation terminology, grammar
and meaning, translation and culture, translation theory, and descriptive
translation studies.Term: 1Credits: 15Assessment: 3000-word Essay (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Mark Shuttleworth 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				In this module you apply your theoretical and conceptual background of
translation to a very practical approach of using several translation
technology applications that are used in the translation industry. These tools
include terminology management and translation memory systems. The hands-on
experience with a range of translation tools happens in a dedicated Translation
Lab. Applications include the following: SDL Trados Multiterm
Desktop 2015, SDL Trados Studio 2015, memoQ and a few selected cloud-based systems.· Credit: 30· Term: 1, 2 and 3· Assessment: Translation technology test (40%); Group project (60%).· Module Convenor: Dr Christophe Declercq
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces you to the fascinating professional practice of
making audiovisual material accessible to people with sensory impairments. You
will learn about subtitling for the deaf and the hard-of-hearing (SDH) and
audio description for the blind and the partially sighted (AD). You will cover
areas such as legislation, history and present situation of SDH and AD,
teletext versus SDH for DVD, subtitling and audio describing for children and
adults, live versus pre-recorded SDH and AD, economic and professional aspects,
and the conventions used on screen. You will develop subtitling and audio
description skills in a variety of registers and styles by
translating programmes from various sources (films, corporate videos,
documentaries) and covering a broad range of specialised genres and media
issues. You will produce your own work with appropriate software
and equipment. The module is taught in English and all the activities are carried out
in English.· Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment: Subtitling project (50%); Audio description project (50%)· Module Convenor: Dr Soledad Zárate
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module is designed to cover a variety of topics concerning the use
of computer systems to present, manipulate, extract or translate information
expressed in natural (i.e. human) language. Areas likely to be covered include
machine translation, post-editing, controlled language and speech recognition. You will
acquire a basic understanding of the technology behind language engineering
applications, and learn to use and evaluate different tools and technologies.
Once again, this module has a strong hands-on focus.· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment: Report (30%); Project (70%)· Module Convenor: Dr Rocío Baños-Piñero
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces students to the specific context and
practices of localisation (software, website, videogames). The module provides
students with an awareness of how the localisation industry works, and which
processes are involved in a typical project. Students explore different
localisation features through a number of practical sessions. The objective is
to provide students with the practical skills necessary to develop further
experience in a professional localisation environment. This module
is not language-specific: it is taught in English and all the
activities are carried out in English.  · Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment: Project (100%)· Module Convenor: Ms Marga Navarrete
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module
will provide you with the professional skills you will need to work in the
world of translation, both as a freelance translator and as an employee of an
institution or translation agency. Through a combination of lectures, seminars,
and project work, you will be exposed to prototypical situations you are likely
to encounter in your future career. The module will cover topics such as
translator ethics, project and client management, customer service, and
business skills. You will work on your own translation projects as part of a
team and receive constructive and relevant feedback on your performance.
Teaching will be interactive and feature real-world examples from many areas of
the industry.  · Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment:
Project management portfolio (100%)· Module
Convenor: Dr Louisa Desilla
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces students to the fascinating professional practice of making audiovisual material accessible to people with sensory impairments. Students will learn about audio description for the blind and the partially sighted (AD). The areas covered include: legislation, history and present situation of AD, audio describing for children and adults, live versus pre-recorded AD, economic and professional aspects, and the conventions used on screen. Through a range of carefully chosen examples and exercises, students will not only develop confidence and skills in producing scripts for audio description, but also broaden their awareness about the needs of these people and of the grammatical and syntactic features of the language.Credit: 15Term: 1Assessment: 1500-word assessed audio description (written description only, no recording) and 1500-word commentary (100%)Module Convenor: Louise Fryer
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces students to the fascinating professional practice of making audiovisual material accessible to people with sensory impairments. Students will learn about subtitling for the deaf and the hard of hearing (SDH). The areas covered include: legislation, history and present situation of SDH, subtitling for children and adults, live versus pre-recorded SDH, economic and professional aspects, and the conventions used on screen. Through a range of carefully chosen examples and exercises, students will not only develop confidence and skills in SDH, but also broaden their awareness about the needs of these people and of the grammatical and syntactic features of the language.Credit: 15Term: 2Assessment: 100-word subtitling project and 1500-word commentary (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Soledad Zárate
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This
module will prepare you to work professionally and reflectively in the highly
specialised translation market, providing you with the relevant competences to
translate scientific and technical texts. You will be introduced to scientific
and technical translation through lectures and language-specific, interactive
seminars. After an introductory session on the characteristics of scientific
and technical translation, you will be split into language-specific groups,
where you will translate a wide range of specialised texts belonging to
scientific and technical domains (to include popular science articles,
scientific journal papers, scientific reports, proposals, user guides, product
documentation, patents, technical specifications, etc.).· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment:
Translation test (50%); Translation project (50%)· Module
Convenor: Dr Federico Federici
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This
module will prepare you to work professionally and reflectively in the highly
specialised translation market, providing you with the relevant competences to
translate medical texts. You will be introduced to medical translation through
lectures and language-specific, interactive seminars. After an introductory
session on the characteristics of medical translation, you will be split into
language-specific groups, where you will translate a wide range of specialised
texts belonging to medical/pharmaceutical domains (to include patient
information leaflets, clinical trials, case reports, healthcare documents,
informed consent forms, pharmaceutical reports, etc.)· Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment:
Translation test (50%); Translation project (50%)· Module
Convenor: Emmanouela Patiniotaki
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces you to Audiovisual Translation (AVT) practices in
general, and offers you an in-depth knowledge in the field of subtitling.
During the lectures and seminars, you will cover areas such as history and
present situation of subtitling, pros and cons of subtitling versus other AVT
modes, semiotics of subtitling, conventions used on screen, and economic and
professional aspects of AVT. You will develop subtitling skills in a variety of
registers and styles by translating texts and programmes of an audiovisual
nature drawn from various sources (films, corporate videos, documentaries) and
covering a broad range of specialised genres and media issues. You will produce
your own subtitles with appropriate subtitling equipment· Credit: 15· Term:1· Assessment: Subtitling test (50%); Subtitling project (50%)· Module Convenor: Prof. Jorge Díaz-Cintas
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module introduces you to the professional activity of translating
audiovisual material for voiceover and dubbing. During the lectures and
seminars, you will cover areas such as the history and present situation of
revoicing modes in Audiovisual Translation (AVT), the conventions used in the
profession, common translation issues and strategies, and economic and
professional aspects of voiceover/dubbing. You will develop voiceover and
dubbing skills in a variety of registers and styles by translating texts and
programmes of an audiovisual nature drawn from various sources (documentaries, TV
series, animation, films) and covering a broad range of specialised genres and
media issues. You will produce your own translations taking into consideration
relevant conventions.· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment: Test (50%); Project (50%)· Module Convenor: Dr Rocío Baños-Piñero 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The module provides an overview of the multiple tasks that language mediators may be asked to perform in scenarios of crisis communication. The term translation here indicates any form of language mediation as deployed in crises – as opposite to discipline-specific terminology – and includes both written translation and oral interpreting as specific roles blur when evolving crises demand immediate responses with limited resources. The module will familiarize students with operational issues, existing aid technologies, and approaches used by language mediators in enabling communication in such scenarios as multilingual medical emergencies, disaster response units, pandemic information, terrorist and inter-operational response teams. The module delivers intensive training in supporting multilingual communication and peer-support in dealing with unpredictable circumstances, including operating in unpredictable language combinations. The module is driven by a problem-solving approach and is not language-specific. Discussions, role plays, and analysis of the constraints in ensuring quality of communication as currently documented in the literature on crisis communication will enable students to understand the role of translating in crises. The module will focus on ways of deploying automated technologies in order to diminish communication times in multilingual environments so as to have more time to assessment procedures that monitor quality of communication in crises. Currently, ad-hoc responses characterize most crisis translation activities; the ad-hoc situations will be contrasted with study of potentially coordinated and concerted forms of translation support as embedded in emergency planning. Term: 2Credits: 15Assessment: 2000-word scenario test (50%) and 3 hour technological test (50%)Module Convenor: Dr Federico M. Federici 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation Technologies 1 module is taught in Autumn Term (Term 1) and is a pre-requisite for Translation Technologies 2 taught in Term 2. The module enables students to master computer-aided translation (CAT) tools through presentations and practical seminars. Students are taught to use relevant software packages independently to perform translations into their first language and to assess functionalities of the applications from a language-independent perspective. Fundamental concepts, principles and workflows are introduced using specific translation technology tools. In addition, students become acquainted with the use of technology to increase efficiency as understood in the translation and localisation industry: The emphasis is on industry-standard translation memory functionalities such as Wordfast Anywhere and SDL Trados. Through hands-on exercises students develop an awareness of the use of translation technology in the industry.The module is compulsory for both MSc Specialised Translation students (all routes) and for MA Translation students taking the Translation and Culture route.Term: 1Credits: 15Assessment: 2 hour test (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Christophe Declercq
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation Technologies 2 module runs over 14 weeks during Spring Term (Term 2) and Summer Term (Term 3), due to the need for hands-on exercises and the time students need to digest information and learn how to use two different and complex technological tools efficiently. Mastering computer-aided translation (CAT) tools happens at consecutive stages, each taking a number of seminars based on problem solving exercises as well as tutorial sessions with guided activities overseen by the tutor. The module builds on students’ knowledge and skills acquired in the pre-requisite module Translation Technologies 1 (taught in Term 1). In Translation Technologies 2, students focus on mastering advanced features of the most frequently-used translation memory functionalities in industry-standard software packages such as SDL Trados and memoQ. Through varied hands-on experience students develop an awareness of the use of translation technology in the translation industry.The module is compulsory for MSc Specialised Translation students on the Scientific, Technical and Medical pathway and optional for students on the other MSc Specialised Translation pathways, and for MA Translation students. Pre-requisite: Translation Technologies 1Credit: 15Term: 2 and 3Assessment: 2000-word essay plus supporting files (100%)Module Convenor: Dr Christophe Declercq
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module
introduces different modes of oral interpreting, such as Liaison, Public
Service, Consecutive and Simultaneous Interpreting. Through lectures, seminars,
discussions and project work, you will be exposed to issues and challenges that
you are likely to encounter in your future career. You will also develop
preparation and note-taking skills. Topics to be covered include the code of
conduct, the role of the interpreter, cultural issues, and other elements
essential for professional interpreters.· Credit: 15· Term: 1· Assessment:
Portfolio (100%)· Module
Convenor:  Ms Miko Yoshiko Shimizu 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This module is designed to introduce essential interpreting skills and
techniques in liaison, public service and consecutive interpreting that are
required to embark on a career as a professional interpreter in this particular
field. It aims to maximise your potential to become a professional interpreter
by providing opportunities to practise interpreting skills in various contexts
in specific language pairs. You will then reflect on your performance in order
to develop and improve your interpreting skills. The module is taught through
lectures, followed by practical seminars.· Credit: 15· Term: 2· Assessment: Liaison Interpreting Test (50%);
Consecutive Interpreting Test (50%)· Module
Convenor: Dr Claire Shih  
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 Once the teaching finishes in May, you will spend the remaining part of
the course (to the beginning of September) researching and writing a
dissertation of a max. of 12,000 words in length. You can opt for a theoretical
or a hands-on approach and you will be assigned a supervisor. Among others, research areas
might include aspects of translation theory, translation technology,
audiovisual translation, corpus linguistics, specialised translation and localisation.Credit: 60Assessment: Dissertation of 12,000 words max. (100%) 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 This MSc is designed to provide first-class training in audiovisual 
translation and accessibility to the media. The programme offers you the
 opportunity to develop your translation and language skills, to deepen 
your understanding of the workings of language as an essential tool of 
communication and to gain vital experience in the rapidly developing 
areas of audiovisual translation and translation technology.CenTraS offer the following language combinations for this pathway: View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university, or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard, and proven linguistic ability in one of the language pairs available within the programme.We can consider applicants to the MSc pathways intending to work from English into Arabic, Spanish, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Italian and Russian, and French into English until 15 July 2017. Unfortunately we are unable to consider applications for other language combinations for 2017 entry. Please contact Dr Federico M Federici for information prior to applying, f.m.federici@ucl.ac.ukIf your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MSc is suitable for both practitioners and recent graduates looking to specialise in the fields of audiovisual translation, accessibility to the media and translation technology, as well as for those aiming for a research degree and/or academic career.Due to the highly competitive nature of this programme and the limited places available, offers will not be made until February 2018 at the earliest.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				TRANG001 – Language & TranslationTRANG024 – SubtitlingTRANG018 – Audio Description for the Blind and the Partially SightedTRANG028 – Translation Technologies ITRANG019 – Subtitling for the Deaf and the Hard-of-HearingTRANG025 – Translating for Voiceover & DubbingTRANG099 – DissertationInside the Translation Industry Choose a total of two modules from the options below:TRANG015 – LocalisationTRANG014 – Language & AutomationTRANG017 – Professional Skills for TranslatorsTRANG020 – Scientific and Technical TranslationTRANG026 – Topics in Audiovisual Translation (not running 2017/18)TRANG029 – Translation Technologies II (Terms 2-3)
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This MSc is designed to provide first-class training in specialised 
translation with interpreting. The programme offers you the opportunity 
to develop your translation, interpreting and language skills, to deepen
 your understanding of the workings of language as an essential tool of 
communication and to gain vital experience in the rapidly developing 
area of translation technology.CenTraS currently offer the following language combinations for this pathway:From English into: Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Russian and Turkish. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university, or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard, and proven linguistic ability in one of the language pairs available within the programme. From English into Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Russian and Turkish.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MSc is suitable for both practitioners and recent graduates looking to specialise in the fields of translation, interpreting and translation technology, as well as for those aiming for a research degree and/or academic career.Due to the highly competitive nature of this programme and the limited places available, offers will not be made until February 2018 at the earliest.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				TRANG001 – Language & TranslationTRANG028 – Translation Technologies ITRANG030 – General InterpretingTRANG020 – Scientific & Technical TranslationTRANG031 – Liaison & Consecutive InterpretingTRANG099 – DissertationInside the Translation IndustryTRTPG002 The Interaction and Language Management of Interpreting (Term 2)TRTPG003 The Historical and Social Context of Interpreting (Term 1)  Choose a total of two optional modules:TRANG015 – LocalisationTRANG018 - Audio Description for the Blind and the Partially SightedTRANG021 – Medical TranslationTRANG024 – SubtitlingTRTPG003 – The Historical and Social Context of Interpreting (if not already included in core credits)TRANG014 – Language & AutomationTRANG017 – Professional Skills for TranslatorsTRANG025 – Translating for Voiceover & DubbingTRANG027 – Crisis TranslationTRANG029 – Translation Technologies II (Terms 2-3)TRTPG002 – The Interaction and Language Management of Interpreting (if not already included in core credits)TRTPG043 Corpora for TranslationIt is recommended to choose modules that create a balanced timetable over each term.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				This MSc is designed to provide first-class training in 
specialised translation in the scientific, technical and medical areas. 
The programme will equip you with the skills needed for professional 
work in the translation industry and for further research in translation
 studies. You will develop translation skills in a variety of 
registers and styles by translating a wide range of scientific, 
technical and medical texts: scientific reports, popular science 
articles, peer-reviewed articles, healthcare documents, clinical case 
studies, user guides, and technical specifications, among others.CenTraS currently offer the following language combinations for this pathway: View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university, or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard, and proven linguistic ability in one of the language pairs available within the programme. From English into Arabic, Bulgarian, Chinese, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Thai, and Turkish.From French, German or Spanish into EnglishIf your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MSc is suitable for both practitioners and recent graduates looking to specialise in the fields covered by the programme (e.g. scientific, medical, technical translation and translation technology), as well as for those aiming for a research degree and/or academic career.Due to the highly competitive nature of this programme and the limited places available, offers will not be made until February 2018 at the earliest.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				TRANG001 – Language & TranslationTRANG021 – Medical TranslationTRANG028 – Translation Technologies ITRANG014 – Language & AutomationTRANG020 – Scientific & Technical TranslationTRANG029 – Translation Technologies II (Terms 2-3)TRANG099 – DissertationInside the Translation Industry Choose a total of two optional modules:TRANG015 – LocalisationTRANG018 – Audio Description for the Blind and the Partially SightedTRANG024 – SubtitlingTRANG017 – Professional Skills for TranslatorsTRANG019 – Subtitling for the Deaf and the Hard-of-HearingTRANG025 – Translating for Voiceover & DubbingTRANG026 – Topics in Audiovisual Translation (not running 2017/18)TRANG027 – Crisis TranslationTRTPG041 – Translation TheoryTRTPG043 Corpora for TranslationIt is recommended to choose modules that create a balanced timetable over each term.
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation and Culture pathway of the MA Translation enables you to focus on your practical language, translation and technology skills, with the option of studying an additional language, while developing a comprehensive understanding of the nature of translation. In this multilingual environment, you will build international networks and the language skills to enhance your employability in today’s multicultural workplace. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for graduates with a language and culture degree who wish to develop practical translation skills in more than one language, along with an understanding of theoretical aspects of translation, for professional development or further research in this field. A sound knowledge of at least one language other than English is essential.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation and Culture pathway consists of 180 credits. The diet is comprised of a 60 credit dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory taught modules and 90 credits of optional taught modules.Choose a total of 90 credits of optional modules from the list below.CenTraS modules:Language modules including Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian languages, Spanish (two languages, up to 60 credits in total):Specialised Translation MSc modules (up to 30 credits, in addition to Translation Technologies):CMII modules (up to 30 credits)Optional modules are subject to availability and language prerequisites where applicable. It is strongly recommended to choose a balanced timetable over the two teaching terms.  This programme allows flexibility within certain parameters that need to be discussed with the programme convenor. Module selection needs to be approved by the programme convenor at the start of the academic year.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Research pathway of the Translation MA in the Centre for Translation Studies enables you to focus on a specific interest in translation and intercultural studies under specialist supervision, developing superior research and writing abilities. You can also choose from a range of modules to enhance your language, translation and technology skills. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for graduates in a language and culture subject who wish to conduct an in-depth study of a specific topic in translation and intercultural studies and develop an understanding of theoretical and practical aspects of translation, for professional development or further research in this field. A sound knowledge of at least one language other than English is essential.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Research pathway consists of 180 credits. The diet is comprised of a 90 credit dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory taught modules and 60 credits of optional taught modules.Choose a total of 60 credits of optional modules from the list below.CenTraS modules:Language modules including Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian languages, Spanish (one language, up to 30 credits):Specialised Translation MSc modules (up to 15 credits, in addition to Translation Technologies):CMII modules (up to 30 credits)Optional modules are subject to availability and language prerequisites where applicable. It is strongly recommended to choose a balanced timetable over the two teaching terms. This programme allows flexibility within certain parameters that need to be discussed with the programme convenor. Module selection needs to be approved by the programme convenor at the start of the academic year.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The Translation Studies pathway of the MA in Translation enables you to advance your practical language, translation and technology skills while developing a comprehensive understanding of translation in social, cultural and historical contexts. It brings together students from a wide range of languages and nationalities, generating international networks and the language skills to enhance your employability in today’s multicultural workplace. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply. September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2018A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The programme is particularly suitable for graduates with a language and culture degree who wish to develop practical translation skills alongside an understanding of theoretical aspects of translation, for professional development or further research in this field. A sound knowledge of at least one language other than English is essential.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme will deliver.
                            Degree last modified on 3 October 2017 at 15:23 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				The Translation Studies pathway consists of 180 credits. The diet is comprised of a 60 credit dissertation, 30 credits of compulsory taught modules and 90 credits of optional taught modules. Choose a total of 90 credits of optional modules from the list below.CenTraS modules:Language modules including Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian languages, Spanish (one language, up to 30 credits):Specialised Translation MSc modules (up to 15 credits, in addition to Translation Technologies):CMII modules (up to 30 credits)Optional modules are subject to availability and language prerequisites where applicable. It is strongly recommended to choose a balanced timetable over the two teaching terms. This programme allows flexibility within certain parameters that need to be discussed with the programme convenor. Module selection needs to be approved by the programme convenor at the start of the academic year.September 2018Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £10,140Part-time: £5,120Overseas:Full-time: £21,160Part-time: £10,740Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The Translation Theory and Practice MA is taught by staff from a wide 
range of departments at UCL. Students benefit from a flexible programme 
of study that allows for various pathways and can include practical 
translation work involving particular language combinations, modules on 
electronic communication and translation technology, and more 
theoretical translation studies. The dissertation either consists of a translation from or into English,
or of a study of existing translations.Located in the heart of multicultural London, UCL provides a uniquely rich environment for studying and researching translation in all its facets, taught by specialist translation staff with a divers range of research interests including translation and the web, theatre translation, and Chinese translation.The MA is truly interdisciplinary, with access to experts in an unrivalled variety of languages and disciplines from across Europe and further afield. This allows students to customise their own programmes in relation to their language competencies and other academic and professional interests.UCL translation students are highly valued by the translation industry, with workshops and networking events organised during the year. View core and optional module information for this pathway.  View entry requirements and find out how to apply.  There is an ever-growing demand for highly-trained commercial, literary and other types of translators in the private as well as in the public sector and in international organisations, in Britain and abroad. Other career paths include the media, publishing and education.
 

   Find out more

 
September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				September 2016Full-time: 1 yearPart-time: 2 years UK/EU:Full-time: £9,020Part-time: £4,510Overseas:Full-time: £18,670Part-time: £9,285Ms Amy Connollya.connolly@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 9323Ms Jo Wolffselcs.admissions@ucl.ac.uk+44 (0)20 7679 3096 
				    Centre for Translation Studies
				    
				 The MA programme requires a total of 180 credits. The
 core modules are compulsory and constitute of the required 90 credits. The other 90 credits can be chosen from the list of modules below, subject to availability and departmental approval.There may be certain language or other 
prerequisites for optional modules. Please note that some modules fill up very quickly, whilst others are sometimes withdrawn according to student demand, so places cannot be guaranteed.If you wish to take any of any of the modules above beginning HEBRG*, HISTG*, PLING*, SEESG*), please contact the relevant departmental administrator in the 
first instance.  If you are interested in taking modules from the Department of Information 
Studies (codes beginning INSTG), please contact Kerstin Michaels in the first instance.
