 We provide bespoke resources, events and/or 1-1 appointments to the following groups...
A degree in Philosophy is well regarded by a wide range of recruiters. Throughout the degree, students acquire high level skills in analysis, independent critical thinking, and the communication of ideas.

* ’Other’ includes those graduates who were travelling, not available for employment or unemployed.

Prizes:
 The department awards the following prizes to undergraduate
students:
				    
				Below is the provisional list of modules running in the 2017/18 academic year. Click on the title to see more information including a module description. Module leader email addresses can be found via the staff pages: Module Leader: Fiona Leigh
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 1 (200 words = 10%) Essay 2 (300 words = 10%) Essay 3 (2000 words = 80%)
Capacity: 105 Description: This course introduces
students to some of the central areas of philosophical enquiry in the Western
philosophical tradition by way of reading classical Greek philosophy. The
course will focus on Plato and then Aristotle, reading works in ethics,
epistemology, metaphysics, psychology and political theory. A sample syllabi,
with the relevant primary texts, is as follows:Week 1: Introduction, Courage, and
universals            Primary
text: Plato, Laches Week 2: What is the virtue of courage?            Primary text: Plato, Laches Week 3: Recollection in Plato            Primary
text: Plato, Meno, 70a-86dWeek 4: From belief to knowledge             Primary text: Plato, Meno (the rest), 86d-100bWeek 5: Plato’s Forms and
‘Heracliteanism’             Primary texts: Plato, Phaedo 74a-75b; 100a-e, Republic 476a-480aWeek 6: Plato on Love and Desire             Primary
texts: Plato, Symposium 201d-212c, Phaedrus 247a-248e;
252d-256e, Lysis 218d-222aWeek 7: Aristotle’s Metaphysics -
Hylomorphism             Primary text: Aristotle, Metaphysics, VII.1-4; Physics, II.1-3 Week 8: Ethics and the function argument
            Primary text: Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book I (all of book
I)Week 9: The rational and irrational
parts of the soul            Primary
text: Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics I.13,
de Anima I.1, III.1-3Week 10: Slavery            Primary text: Aristotle, Politics
I.1-6 & I.13Module Leader: Rory Madden
Term: 2
Area: C
Assessment: Exam 2h
Capacity: 165Description: 
PHIL1011 is an introduction to Early Modern
(17th and 18th Century) philosophy, concentrating on two celebrated but
contrasting philosophers of this period: René Descartes (1596 - 1650) the first
of the great Continental Rationalists, and David Hume (1711 - 1776) the last of
the great British Empiricists. In the first half of term we will be thinking
through Descartes' Meditations (1641), and in the second half of term Book 1 of
Hume's Treatise of Human Nature (1739-40), the respective masterpieces of these
two philosophers.  Each week’s lecture
and class concerns the author’s treatment of some aspect of metaphysics, mind,
and knowledge.Provisional Syllabus:Weeks 1-5: Descartes•             Introduction and Doubt•             Cogito•             God and Clear & Distinct Ideas•             God and Clear & Distinct Ideas continued•             Mind & BodyWeeks 6-10: Hume•             Introduction•             Ideas and Impressions•             Causation•             External Objects•             Personal IdentityExample exam questions:•             How, if at all, can the meditator be certain of her own
existence?•             Is Descartes’ argument for a real distinction between
mind and body a sound argument?•             Explain and assess Hume’s views about our belief in
external objects.•             Does Hume show that causation is all in the mind?
Module Leader: Amia Srinivasan
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Weekly reading responses (15%) Essay 1 (1000 words = 35%) Essay 2 (2000 words = 50%)
Capacity: 135Description: The course provides an introduction to epistemology and metaphysics. Topics to be discussed include: the nature of knowledge, scepticism, whether theism is rational, why the universe exists, free will, personal identity, and the metaphysics of race.Module Leader: Ethan Nowak
Term: 2
Area: A
Assessment: 40% Coursework; 60% Exam (2 hour exam in Term 3)
Capacity: 75Description: 
This module aims to introduce the student to the
main ideas, concepts and  techniques of
contemporary first-order logic, including syntax, semantics and natural
deduction.NB PHIL1014 is a
pre-requisite for this module.Module Leader: Ethan Nowak
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: 40% Coursework; 60% Exam (at end of Term 1)
Capacity: 85Description: This module aims to introduce the student to the main ideas, concepts and techniques of contemporary propositional logic, including syntax, semantics and natural deduction.Module Leader: Mark Kalderon
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Exam 2hr
Capacity: 165Description:  Introduction to central themes in moral
philosophy through the examination of key historical texts.Required reading:· David Hume, A Treatise of
Human Nature (either the Nidditch or the Norton and Norton both OUP)· Immanuel Kant, Groundwork
of the Metaphysics of Morals, translated by Mary Gregor with an Introduction by
Christine M. Korsgaard, CUPRecommended general
background reading:· John Rawls, Lecture on the
History of Moral Philosophy· David Wiggins, Ethics:
Twelve Lectures on the Philosophy of MoralityProvisional syllabus Week 1. Hume’s Moral Science· Required reading: David
Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature, Introduction, 1.1.1-5· Further reading: Rawls,
Introduction; Wiggins, chapter 1Week 2. The Combat of Reason
and the Passions· Required reading: David
Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature, 2.3.3, 3.1.1-2· Further reading: Rawls,
Hume I, Hume II; Wiggins, chapter 2Week 3. Moral Rationalism and
Moral Sentimentalism· Required reading: David
Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature, 3.1.1-2· Further reading: Rawls,
Hume IV; Wiggins, chapter 3Week 4. Justice Not a Natural
Virtue· Required reading: David Hume,
A Treatise of Human Nature, 3.2.1· Further reading: Rawls,
Hume III; Wiggins, chapter 3Week 5. Justice as an
Artificial Virtue· Required reading: David
Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature, 3.2.2· Further reading: Rawls,
Hume III; Wiggins, chapter 4Week 6. The Project of Kant’s
Groundwork· Required reading: Immanuel
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, Preface, Section 1· Further reading: Christine
Korsgaard’s Introduction to Mary Gregor’s Translation (CUP); Rawls, Kant IWeek 7. The Derivation of the
First Formula· Required reading: Immanuel
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, Section 1· Further reading: Rawls,
Kant II; Wiggins, chapter 5Week 8. Applying the First
Formula· Required reading: Immanuel
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, Section 2· Further reading: Rawls,
Kant II; Wiggins, chapter 5Week 9. Derivation of the
Second Formula· Required reading: Immanuel
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, Section 2· Further reading: Rawls,
Kant III; Wiggins, chapter 5Week 10. Derivation of the
Third Formula· Required reading: Immanuel
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, Section 2· Further reading: Rawls,
Kant IV; Wiggins, chapter 5Sample questions:The essay titles are divided
into three sections. One section is one Hume, one on Kant, one on Hume and
Kant. The last, comparative questions are the most difficult. Section A Hume1. What are the differences
between the natural and artificial virtues?2. 'It may not be contrary to
reason, as Hume understands it, to prefer the destruction of the entire world
to the scratching of one's finger, but it is a mad, insane preference.'
Discuss.3. Does the merit of an
action derive from a virtuous motive as Hume contends? Section B Kant4. Schiller writes 'I like to
serve my friends, but unfortunately I do so by inclination. And so I am
bothered by the thought that I am not virtuous. There is no other way but this!
You must seek to despise them. And do with repugnance what duty bids you.'
Discuss.5. How might a maxim's
passing the universalizability test fail to be necessary for its being morally
permissible?6. 'While emotionally
resonant, the Formula of Humanity is impossible to apply in the sense that no
specific duty can be derived from it in any given circumstance.' Discuss.Section C Hume vs Kant7. Can categorical duties be
accomodated within a the framework of Humean sentimentalism?8. Is moral judgment
determined by reason or sentiment?9. 'There is no place for the
passions in Kant's ethics.' Discuss. Module Leader: Benedict Rumbold
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 2000 words
Capacity: 180
Description: In this course, we investigate
three large sets of questions about justice and the importance of liberty and
equality for a just society:(1) Liberty: What is liberty
and why is it important? Which liberties, if any, should a just society
protect? Freedom of expression? Freedom from interference? Economic Liberty?
Sexual liberty? Political liberty? Can these different liberties come into
conflict, and if so, should some have priority over others?(2) Equality: What is
equality, is it important, and which kinds of equality, if any, should a just
society ensure? Equality of opportunity? Equality of income and wealth?
Political equality? (3) Reconciliation: Can a
society ensure the equality and liberty of its citizens at the same time, or
are these political values inherently in conflict with one another? If they are
conflicting values, which is to take priority?To facilitate our
investigation, we will examine three theories of justice: utilitarianism,
libertarianism, and liberal egalitarianism.Examples of reading
materials:1. IntroductionMartin King: Letter from
Brimingham Jail2. Utilitarianism 1Jeremy Bentham - The
Principles of Morals and Legislation (selections)Jeremy Bentham - Principles
of the Civil Code, Of SlaveryFrederick Douglass – What the
Black Man Wants3. Utilitarianism 2John Stuart Mill – UtilitarianismPeter Singer – Famine,
Affluence, and Morality4. Utilitarianism 3John Stuart Mill - On Liberty
(selections)US Supreme Court – Carhart v.
Gonzales5. Libertarianism 1Robert Nozick - Anarchy,
State, Utopia (selections)6. Libertarianism 2Robert Nozick - Anarchy,
State, Utopia (selections)Debra Satz - Voluntary
Slavery and the Limits of Markets, Law and Ethics ofHuman Rights, Vol. 1, Issue
3, pp. 86-1097. Public GoodsMilton Friedman - Capitalism
and Freedom (selections)Mancus Olson – The Logic of
Collective Action8. Liberal Egalitarianism 1John Rawls - A Theory of
Justice, Revised Edition (selections)9. Liberal Egalitarianism 2John Rawls - A Theory of
Justice, Revised Edition (selections)10. Equality of Opportunity
and School ChoiceAdam Swift – How not to be a
hypocriteElizabeth Anderson –
Rethinking equality of opportunity Module Leader: Various - Convenor Sarah Richmond
Term: 2
Area: n/a
Assessment: Essay 2000 words
Capacity: 65Description: Each tutorial group is allocated to a tutor, usually an advanced
PhD student, who meets weekly for an hour to discuss set texts; to improve the
students’ understanding of them; to debate; and to instruct the students in
essay-writing skills. Each student in the group will write two essays in the
course of the term, to be presented to the group.The tutor is responsible for
deciding – according to their expertise - the selection of texts to be studied, although this is done in
consultation with the course convenor. See below for examples. In general, there will be a spread of different
philosophical texts, possibly on a common theme, and frequently including both
‘historical’ and more contemporary texts.Assessment method 2,000-word submitted essay,
due in on the first day of the following Term. It is possible to work up and
submit one of the essays presented earlier in the term, in the light of
feedback from the tutor.Recommended general
background readingThere is no recommended
background reading in advance of the course beginning. Any knowledge of
philosophy already secured is likely to be useful.Provisional syllabusAs mentioned above, nothing
is fixed in advance and the ‘syllabus’ is settled by the course tutor. Below
are samples of readings that have been set, from different domains of philosophy.Political PhilosophyIsaiah Berlin (1969) ‘Two
Concepts of Liberty’ esp. sections 1,2 and 5, printed in Berlin Liberty (2002,
Oxford University Press) Gerald C. MacCallum, Jr.
(1967) ‘Negative and Positive Freedom’ Philosophical Review 76: 312-34 Quentin Skinner (2002) ‘A
Third Concept of Liberty’ Proceedings of the British Academy 117: 237-68 G. A. Cohen (2001) ‘Freedom
and Money’ Revista Argentina de Teoria Juridica 2: 1-32; printed in G. A. Cohen
(ed. Michael Otsuka) On the Currency of Egalitarian Justice and Other Essays in
Political Philosophy (2011, Princeton University Press)MetaphysicsDavid Lewis: ‘The paradoxes
of Time Travel’.David Lewis: Selection from
On the Plurality of Worlds. §1.1: The thesis of plurality of worlds, pp. 1-3;
§1.3: Closeness, pp. 20-27.Saul Kripke: Naming and
Necessity, selection from lecture 1, pp. 41-53. Ancient PhilosophyPlato, The Apology and Plato,
CritoSample questionsHere are some titles from
recent submitted essays:Why do egalitarians need to
balance the value of fairness against other values, such as respect?Explain and assess Hare’s
defence against the claim that ‘Utilitarianism must be an objectionable
doctrine, if it can condone or even comment slavery’.How does Lewis try to escape the
paradoxical consequences that could seem to arise for Tim if he succeeds in his
aim of travelling backwards in time to kill his grandfather? ‘The winner’ and ‘the loser’
might not designate the same man (Nixon) in all possible worlds, Kripke claims.
How does he justify his idea that a name like ‘Nixon’ is different from these
descriptions in that they do designate the same individual in all possible
worlds?Is the internalist view of
justification correct? Module Leader: James Wilson
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 2500 words
Capacity: 90Description:  This module provides an introduction to some key topics issues in aesthetics and the philosophy of art. Topics to be examined include the nature and justifiability of aesthetic judgments (how can there be a 'standard of taste'?), the aesthetic appreciation of nature, theories of the nature and value of art (can just anything count as art if you put it in a gallery?) and the ontology of artistic works. http://readinglists.ucl.ac.uk/modules/phil2030.html Module Leader: Sarah Richmond
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 2500 words
Capacity: 60Description:  The aim of this course is to examine the
relationship between morality and literature from a number of angles. Some
topics will be more historical, while others will be more thematic. Historical authors whose ideas are discussed
may include: Plato; Lessing; Rousseau; Schiller and Sartre. Questions and
problems to be discussed may include: is a literary work subject to moral
evaluation? If so, how? How might its moral evaluation contribute to its
overall evaluation as a literary artwork? Is literary censorship ever morally
justified? Can literary works be regarded as morally instructive?This course is suitable for
students interested in both philosophy and literature, and who enjoy reading.
Reading will include both literary and philosophical works.Assessment method: Essay of 2,500 words. There will be an
opportunity to write a formative essay.Recommended general
background readingThere are a number of recent
edited collections, which contain essays that will give students an idea of
contemporary academic discussion:Sample questions.Here are some suggested essay
titles:Explain and critically
discuss Plato’s claim that poetry appeals to the ‘base part of the soul’.What, if anything, is wrong
with a work of narrative literature that encourages the reader to identify herself sympathetically with an
immoral character or perspective? Give an example to illustrate your view.The judgement that something
is ‘sentimental’ is sometimes best
understood in aesthetic terms, but in other contexts the same term can express
moral criticism. Is there some common element in these two uses, or are they
quite unrelated? Module Leader: John Vorhaus
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Exam 2h
Capacity: 55Description: This course will examine some selected topics in applied ethics. Most, and possibly all, of the following topics will be covered: abortion, euthanasia, non-human animals, the regulation of recreational drugs, affirmative action, world hunger, rape, privacy and ‘designer babies’.A more general and theoretical lecture will consider the concept of autonomy, as this value is so widely appealed to in this  area. Students will be expected to read at least two papers for most topics, and to participate actively in the back-up seminar. Assessment will be by an two-hour examination, in which students will be expected to answer two questions.  This final paper will offer a wide range of questions to choose from, but a question on each topic is not guaranteed.Module Leader: Luke
Fenton-Glynn
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 2500 words
Capacity: 75Description:  During this course, we will cover a range of
subjects in metaphysics, including: time, change and identity; necessity and
possibility; and causation and counterfactuals.Recommended general background
reading:• Sample questions:• Is the fact that you remember experiences that some
person had last week sufficient to show that you are that person?• “The actual world is just one world among others;
non-actual possible worlds are as real as our own.” Discuss.• Are there necessary truths that are knowable only a
posteriori? Are there contingent truths that can be known a priori?• What is causation?• Does only the present exist?• Is space absolute or relative?• Is time travel possible Module Leader: Rory Madden
Term: 2
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 2500 words
Capacity: 60Description:  This is an intermediate-level module introducing
a range of problems, positions, and arguments in the philosophy of mind, the
philosophical study of mental phenomena and their relation to the rest of
reality. We will cover topics in the
metaphysics of mind before reading week, and topics in the epistemology of mind
after reading week.Some recommended general
background reading:• Sample Examination
Questions:• Is intentionality the
mark of the mental?• Are considerations of
simplicity enough to show that mental states are identical to brain states?• Is there a naturalistic
recipe for mental representation?• What, if anything, is
the obstacle to our understanding phenomenal consciousness in physical terms?• Can higher-order
thoughts explain why some mental states are conscious?• ‘Our knowledge of other
minds always inferential knowledge’. Is it?• What are the prospects
for a perceptual model of introspection?  Module Leader: Mat SimpsonTerm: 1 Area: AAssessment: Exam 2hDescription: This module is designed to deal with a variety of topics in epistemology – the philosophical study of knowledge. The curriculum will vary from year to year. Topics include: theories of knowledge; theories of justification or warrant; scepticism; contextualism; sources of knowledge: perception, memory, introspection, testimony.Module Leader: Ethan Nowak Term: 1 Area: A Assessment: Exam 2h Capacity: 45Description: This course will examine some selected topics in the philosophy of  language. Although the precise contents may vary slightly from year to year the course will typically cover: sense and reference, definite descriptions, proper names, metaphor, the distinction between pragmatics and semantics, speech act theory and its application to the legitimacy of pornography. The course is assessed by a sit-down examination in the summer.
Module Leader: Douglas Lavin
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 2500 words
Capacity: 60Description:  This module is a survey of central questions and
concepts of recent ethical theory. Precise contents may vary slightly by year.
Some topics include: the nature of the good, egoism, utilitarian accounts of
right and wrong action, virtue (esp. justice and benevolence), partiality and
impartiality, moral luck.Recommended general
background reading:•  Questions: Does death harm
the one who dies? Even if death is a harm in some circumstances, must it always
be? Other things equal, would it be good to be immortal?Week 2. Well-Being• Parfit, "What Makes
Someone's Life Go Best?"• Robert Nozick, "The
Experience Machine”Questions: What makes a
person’s life go better? Is pleasure the only ultimate source of value? Are a
person's desires the only measure of how well his or her life is going?Week 3. Egoism• Williams, “Egoism and
Altruism”• Butler, “Upon the Love
of Our Neighbour,” Feinberg, “Psychological Egoism,” Raz, “The Amoralist”Questions: What is
self-interest? Is it the source of all reasons for action? Is it possible to
act for the sake of another’s good or must motivation always bottom out in a
purely selfish element?Week 4. Utilitarianism• Bentham, Introduction to
the Principles of Morals and Legislation, Ch. I, Mill, Utilitarianism, Chs. I,
II, and V• Mill, “Remarks on Bentham’s
Philosophy,” Williams and Smart, Utilitarianism for and againstQuestions: What is the
utilitarian account of the principles upon which we ought to act? Where does it
locate the philosophical basis of our ideas of right and wrong? What is the
source of attraction of the utilitarian conception of morality?Week 5. Beneficience• Singer, “Famine,
Affluence and Morality”• Murphy, “The Demands of
Beneficence,” Miller, “Beneficence, Duty and Distance”Questions: How much, if at
all, must we help others?Week 6. Beneficience• Taurek, “Should the
Numbers Count?”• Parfit, “Innumerate
Ethics,” Kamm, “Equal Treatment and Equal Chances,” Anscombe,“Who is Wronged?”Questions: Do the numbers
count morally speaking? Is the fact that one group has more people require us
to aid its members in preference to another, smaller group?Week 7. Justice• Foot, “The Problem of
Abortion and the Doctrine of Double Effect”• Feinberg, “The Nature
and Value of Rights,” Anscombe, “Mr Truman’s Degree,”Thomson, “The Trolley
Problem”Questions: Is it harder to
justify actively harming someone, intentionally or not, than it is to justify
merely allowing someone to be harmed? Is it harder to justify intentionally
harming someone, than it it is to justify merely knowingly harming someone?Week 8. Justice• Foot, “Utilitarianism
and the Virtues,” Nozick, Anarchy, State and Utopia, ch. 3• Geach, “Good and Evil,”
Scheffler, “Agent-Centered Restrictions, Rationality and the Virtues”Questions: Foot says that
the deep pull of utilitariaism comes from the thought that it can’t be right to
‘prefer the worse to the better.’ How does she argue that the attractiveness of
the thought is only an illusion? How can it be rational to abide by a
constraint on action even when flouting it would prevent more extensive
violations of that very constraint? How can it be wrong to, say, lie even when
doing so will prevent more and worse lies from being told?Week 9. Love and Morality• Wolf, “Moral Saints”• Wolf, “Morality and
Partiality,” Williams, “Persons, Character, Morality”Questions: If love and
friendship are not part of impartial morality, how are we to reconcile their
potentially conflicting demands? A moral saint is someone “whose every action
is as morally good as possible, a person, that is, who is as morally worthy as
can be.” Why does Wolf think that a moral saint is not a good kind of person to
be or a good kind of life tolead? Is she correct?Week 10. Moral Luck• Nagel, “Moral Luck”• Williams, “Moral Luck”Questions: For there to be
moral luck is for one’s moral status to depend on facts outside one’s control.
Can there be moral luck? Is it legitimate for luck to play a role in how blame
and praise are distirbuted? Module Leader: José Zalabardo
Term: 2
Area: A
Assessment: Exam 2h + Home Work exercises
Capacity: 30Description:  The purpose of this course is to present the
basic methods and results of contemporary logic. The emphasis is on the
practical skill of formulating and proving results about logical systems.The textbook for this
course is J. Zalabardo, Introduction to the Theory of Logic, Westview, 2000. We
should be able to cover Chapters 1-3 and some of Chapter 7. The module is
assessed by homework (40%) and an exam in the spring (60%). There will be two
batches of assessed homework, one due after reading week and the other after
Easter. You are expected to read the relevant passages of the book before the
lecture, and to attempt the exercises in the book.The module presupposes familiarity with systems of propositional and first-order logic, at the level of modules PHIL1014 and PHIL1013.Topics to be covered
include:1. Sets2. Mathematical proof3. Relations4. Functions5. Inductive definitions
and inductive proofs6. Propositional syntax
and semantics7. First-order syntax and
semantics8. Models  Module Leader: Joe HortonTerm: 1 
Area: BAssessment: Essay (2,500 words) Description: This module is designed to deal with a variety of topics in political philosophy. It is intended for students with a range of specializations, but some background knowledge in political philosophy.Curriculum varies by year: topics include international justice; distributive justice; democracy; the social contract.Module Leader: Simona
Aimar
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: 1st essay (1500 words 35%) 2nd essay (2200 words 65%)
Capacity: 30
Description: This course offers an advanced introduction to central parts of Aristotle’s work. We will have a problem-based approach, and try to assess how Aristotle addresses his own philosophical questions. In particular, we’ll focus on connections between his Metaphysics and Physics, and also look at how these connections have implications on other branches of Aristotle’s philosophical system. Here is the current list of topics: 1. Substances and their properties2. Change, Matter and Form3. The Four Causes4. Knowledge5. Perception6. Place7. Time8. Soul9. Women and GodStudents are expected to actively participate in class. Module Leader: Ulrike HeuerTerm: 1Area: BAssessment: Essay 2500 wordsCapacity: TBCDescription: This module will be address questions regarding the metaphysical and ethical significance of death, dying, and survival. Precise content may vary slightly by year. Topics include: personal survial, the badness of death, immortality, the value of life, the moral difference of killing and letting die, euthanasia, the death and killing of non-human animals. Module Leader: Mat SimpsonTerm: 2
Area: A
Assessment: Exam 2hrsCapacity:25 Description: In this module we will discuss popular theories of truth, and then examine the various ontological views – theories about what exists – which philosophers have thought to be motivated by considerations about truth. We will discuss popular theories of facts and properties, including realism about universals, trope theory, and nominalism. We will also ask whether such ontological theories are rightly motivated by considerations about truth. Text include:• Kirkham, R. Theories of Truth, MIT Press 1992• D.M. Armstrong Truth and Truthmakers, Cambridge University Press 2004• Helen Beebee and Julian Dodd, eds., Truthmakers: The Contemporary Debate, Oxford University Press 2005• Alex Oliver and D.H. Mellor, eds. Properties, Oxford University Press 1997Module Leader: James Wilson
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 60Description:  This module explores ethical questions in global health by connecting the literature in global health with recent writings in moral and political philosophy. The first half raises some more general issues about global inequalities in health and their causes, and then explores some central issues in moral and political philosophy, including the normative significance of nations, and human rights approaches to health. The second half looks at some more specific issues where philosophers have contributed to debates in global health, including the ethics of research in developing countries and access to pharmaceuticals. Module Leader: José
Zalabardo
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: Exam 2h
Capacity: 25Description:  The purpose of this course is to present some of
the central doctrines of Wittgenstein’s Tractatus-: the Tractarian Account of
Representation and Reality (TARR). We can characterise TARR as involving three
main components.The first component of
TARR is the view that everyday propositions don’t represent the world directly:
they represent the world through the mediation of a class of postulated
propositions, known as elementary propositions (Elementarsätze). Everyday
propositions represent the world by being truth functions of elementary propositions.The second component of
TARR is an account of the nature of elementary propositions and of how they
represent the world. On this account, an elementary proposition is a
combination of items known as names. Names are referential expressions. An elementary
proposition represents the referents of its names as combined with one another
in the same way in which the names are combined in the proposition. The
proposition is true if the referents are so combined; false if they are not.
The referents of names are simple items known as objects. The combinations of
objects that elementary propositions represent as obtaining are known as states
of affairs (Sachverhalte).The third component of
TARR is an account of the structure of reality, according to which a possible
state of the world is constituted by the states of affairs that obtain in it.
Two states of the world differ from one another only if there are states of
affairs that obtain in one and not in the other. And for every set of states of
affairs there is a possible state of the world in which the states of affairs
that obtain are precisely the elements of the set.Thus, according to TARR,
elementary propositions and states of affairs provide the interface between
language and the world. Propositions represent the world by their
truth-functional dependence on elementary propositions. These, in turn,
represent states of affairs. This enables propositions to represent the whole
of reality, since everything that is the case, and everything that can be the
case, consists in the obtaining and non-obtaining of states of affairs—what
truth functions of elementary propositions represent.Taken as an intuitive
model, TARR is fairly easy to understand—we can form a conception of what
things would have to be like in order for TARR to be correct. A precise,
literal understanding of the view is much harder to achieve. And it is even
harder to grasp why anyone would think that this is how things are in
actuality—that language and reality have the structure that TARR attributes to
them and that the former represents the latter as TARR says it does.
Specifically, it is hard to understand why Wittgenstein thought this.
Addressing these questions is the main goal of this course.The lectures will be based
on a book I’m writing on the topic: Representation and Reality in
Wittgenstein’s Tractatus. It’s available to students on Moodle. Please do not
circulate without permission.TOPICS1. Russell’s dual-relation
theory of judgment2. Russell’s
multiple-relation theory of judgment3. Russell and
Wittgenstein on forms4. Wittgenstein’s picture
theory5. Frege on unity and
unsaturatedness6. Wittgenstein on the
unity of the proposition7. Wittgenstein on the
unity of facts8. Objects and expressions
as common structural features9. Substance and
simplicity. There are two main English
translations of the Tractatus, one by by C. K. Ogden (London: Routledge and
Kegan Paul, 1922), and one by David Pears and Brian McGuinness. I tend to use the Pears and McGuinness,
but although they differ in important respects, either would be fine.I have prepared a
hypertext version of the Pears and McGuinness translation. It doesn't work on
some browsers.If you know any German,
there is a very useful edition by Joachim Schulte and Brian McGuinness
, collating sections of the Tractatus with
relevant passages from preliminary manuscripts. Another important primary
source is Wittgenstein's Notebooks, 1914-1916.
This volume contains the main extant manuscripts from the period when
Wittgenstein was working on the Tractatus.Frege and RussellWe will be paying close
attention to the origin of Wittgenstein's ideas in the work of Russell and
Frege. We will be looking mainly at the following texts:For Frege, "Function
and Concept" and "On Concept and Object", both translated in
Translations from the Philosophical Writings of Gottlob Frege. And for Russell:Chapter 4 of The
Principles of Mathematics."On the Nature of
Truth and Falsehood." In Philosophical Essays, 147-59. Chapter 12 of The Problems
of Philosophy ."Theory of Knowledge:
The 1913 Manuscript." In The Collected Papers of Bertrand Russell. Vol 7,
edited by Elizabeth Ramsden Eames and Kenneth Blackwell. . (Part I, Chapters VII and IX, and Part II, Chapters I and V)The fourth lecture of The
Philosophy of Logical Atomism. LaSalle, Ill.: Open Court, 1985.Secondary sourcesBooksThere are many book-length
expositions and commentaries of the Tractatus. Many of them make some good
points but they all differ in important respects from the interpretation that
I'll be presenting. The following might be particularly useful:Max Black. A Companion to
Wittgenstein's Tractatus.
Wittgenstein's Logical Atomism. David Pears The False
Prison: A Study of the Development of Wittgenstein's Philosophy. Articles and book chaptersI will recommend readings
on particular topics in the lectures, but here is an unsystematic selection of
interesting articles on the issues that we will be discussing:
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25 Description: The course will provide a detailed overview of
the philosopher T W Adorno’s views on art, politics and the relationship
between the two. We will study certain key primary texts as well as some of the
important secondary literature. Module Leader: Véronique Munoz-Dardé
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Exam 2h
Capacity: 25Description: This advanced course is intended to introduce students to some central questions in political and moral philosophy.This year’s topic is intimate markets. The course will raise and pursue a number of questions including: Are some markets morally noxious? Should some things not be for sale (for example, surrogacy, sexual services, body parts)? Is there such a thing as self-ownership? How, if at all, does the idea of self-ownership explain, or offer a critique of the notion of intimate markets?Note that some of the materials in this course overlap with those discussed in last year’s Regulation of Intimacy. For that reason, this course is not open to students who took that course.Module Leader: Fiona Leigh
Term: 2
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 3500
Capacity: 25Description: The course focuses on Aristotle’s
philosophy of mind and moral psychology. After an brief introduction in the
first week to the central tenets of his metaphysics and epistemology, the
course will cover topics including Aristotle's views human nature and human
flourishing, the kinds of cognitive capacities attributable to humans and non-human
animals, the emotions, virtue ethics, the doctrine of the mean and learning to
be good, weakness of the will, and the role of contemplation in the good life.
The central primary texts will be de
Anima and the Nicomachean Ethics,
although other texts will be consulted. A sample syllabi, with the relevant
primary texts, is as follows:
Term: 2
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25Description: 
An introduction to advanced themes in the
philosophy of perception through a comparison of vision, audition, and touch.Recommended general
background reading: 
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25Description:  This module is concerned to explore the ways in
which subjects are conscious of themselves. The first six weeks will be
concerned to consider and critically evaluate a number of distinct approaches
to the ways in which we come to know our own psychological lives. The first
three weeks (Section I) will focus on knowledge of belief, and the next three
weeks (Section II) will focus on knowledge of action. In both subsections of
the course a perceptual account of our knowledge of our beliefs and actions
will be contrasted with what we might called practical account of
self-knowledge. An inferential model as an alternative to both will also be
considered. In the last week of Section II (on Libet) students will be
presented with arguments from the neuroscience literature that aim to suggest
that actions are not in fact brought about by the decisions or intentions of
agents - but are automatically produced. The conclusiveness of these arguments
will be evaluated and more recent work in neuroscience suggesting hat Libet’s
original conclusions will be reviewed. The final section of the course (Section
III) will be concerned to explore the nature and significance of a different
kind of consciousness we have of ourselves, that is a consciousness mediated by
the consciousness of other people. Interpersonal self-consciousness is a
consciousness of ourselves as the object of consciousness of another. The
course will consider the nature of such consciousness and will argue that it
should be play an important role in our theory of the self-conscious emotions.
The emotion of shame will be a case study. The course will end by considering
the ways in which human beings can induce and escape such interpersonal
self-consciousness. Reduced Syllabus:Section IWeek 1. Self-Knowledge and
Belief – Introduction and Perceptual Models Key Readings: Module Leader: Rory Madden
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25
Description:  This is an advanced undergraduate/masters level
course covering topics in analytic philosophy of religion. We will be focusing
on three topics• The philosophy of mind
and epistemology of religious experience• Some questions of
theological interest related to the metaphysics of persons: disembodiment,
resurrection, and immortality.• Assessment of theistic
arguments from the apparent fine-tuning for conscious life of the universe.Recommended general
background reading:• James, William 1902 The
Varieties of Religious Experience• Davies, Brian 1993 An
Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion• Swinburne, Richard 2004
The Existence of God 2nd EditionProvisional Syllabus &
Core Readings Sample Essay Questions:• 'Scepticism about religious experience leads to
scepticism about ordinary sensory experience.' Discuss.• Does the diversity of religious experience undermine its
evidential force?• Is it a good thing that we are not immortal?• How, if at all, can a materialist about human persons make
sense of the possibility of life after death?• 'The theistic argument from cosmic fine-tuning is no
better than traditional arguments from design' Discuss.• Is it a mistake to suppose that fine-tuning proves
evidence for the existence of many universes? Module Leader: Luke Fenton-Glynn
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25
Description: In this course, we will cover three central topics in the metaphysics of science: causation, chance and the laws of nature. Questions to be addressed include: What are laws of nature? Are there laws other than those described by physics (for instance, are there laws of biology, meteorology, or economics)? What is the nature of chance (objective probability)? If so, do only fundamental physical laws (for example, those of quantum mechanics) generate chances, or do the laws or generalizations of biology, etc. yield chances? What is causation? How does causation relate to chance?No background in science or probability theory is needed for this course.Recommended general
background reading:• Sample questions:• Are laws of nature mere regularities? • Are the generalisations of the special sciences (e.g.
biology, chemistry, economics) genuine laws of nature?• Are the special sciences reducible to physics?• Is all probability subjective, or are there objective
probabilities in the world?• Can causation be understood in terms of probabilistic
relations between events? • Can structural equations approaches to causation help us
overcome the difficulties facing more traditional philosophical accounts of
causation?• Can the direction of causation and the direction of time
be reduced to the direction of entropy increase? Module Leader: Sebastian Gardner
Term: 2
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25Description: The course examines issues in aesthetics and the philosophy of art in classical German philosophy. Topics covered include: the concept of art's autonomy and its C18 origins; Kant's account of judgements of taste and his theory of art; Schiller's aesthetic solution to the problem of Freedom and Nature in his Letters on Aesthetic Education; aesthetic absolutism in Schelling and the early German Romantics; Hegel's system of art and thesis of the 'end' of art; theories of tragedy in classical German philosophy; and the challenge posed by modern(ist) art, and Danto's end-of-art theory. The two-hour class combines a lecture with discussion of the set text, which students are expected to have read with care and prepared their thoughts about beforehand. Module Leader: Joe HortonTerm: 2
Area: B
Assessment:Essay 3500 wordsCapacity: 25Description: Effective Altruism is a relatively new social movement, but it has already had a significant impact. Its primary aim is to encourage people to use evidence and careful reasoning to do the most good possible with their charitable donations. An important secondary aim is to encourage people to give more to the most effective charities. In this course, we will consider a variety of philosophical questions and controversies surrounding the Effective Altruism movement. These questions include:Should we be Effective Altruists?What justifies Effective Altruism? — Must Effective Altruists be Utilitarians or Consequentialists, or can they also be Non-Consequentialists?What charitable causes do the most good?Should we buy products made in sweatshops?Should we care about human suffering more than animal suffering?Which matters more: ending poverty or controlling artificial intelligence?Should we prioritise preventing the suffering of people who are alive now over preventing the suffering of future generations? Does the threat of future human extinction matter for us here and now? Module Leader: Robert SimpsonTerm: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 3500 wordsCapacity: 25Description: In this module we will examine the various conceptions of ‘autonomy’ that have been appealed to by philosophers and legal theorists as part of a defense of free speech principles. We will also survey some influential conceptions of autonomy that have been espoused by moral philosophers. Our overarching aim will be to consider how successful an autonomy-based defense of free speech is, or could be, and what the most persuasive or promising form of such a defense might involve. Module Leader: Mat SimpsonTerm: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 3500
Capacity: 25  Description: Metaethics involves questions about the nature of value and of ethical thought and language. In this course students will learn about four prominent metaethical theories – naturalism, non-naturalism, constructivism, and expressivism. They will then study four recent debates which each have interesting connections with other areas of philosophy – the question of whether moral judgements motivate, the evolutionary debunking of morality, moral testimony and disagreement, and the problem of creeping minimalism.Text include: Module Leader: Mat Simpson Term: 1Area: A
Assessment: Essay 3500
Capacity: 25  Description: In this module we will investigate the relationship between the world and our representation of it by our language and thoughts. We will study a number of philosophical debates from the last century, which all center on the idea that our theories about human language and thought will in some way affect what we think about reality. Topics studied will include reference and non-existence objects, modality and causation, pragmatism about truth, non-representational theories of meaning and anti-metaphysical arguments. Module Leader: Amia
Srinivasan
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 3500 words (85%) Weekly reading responses (15%)
Capacity: 50Description:  This course will be an advanced introduction to
the philosophical issues raised and addressed by the ongoing fight for women's
liberation from patriarchal oppression. Topics include: the metaphysics of
gender, intersectionality, feminism and trans issues, feminist epistemology,
pornography, sex and sexual 'liberation', feminist critiques of liberalism and capitalism,
and the relationship between feminism and philosophy. Module Leader: Mark
Kalderon
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25Description:  20th
Century Philosophy is dedicated to reading great if neglected texts of the
twentieth century. The text varies year by year. This year we shall be reading Peter Geach’s Mental Acts. Mental Acts contains, inter alia, an influential critique of behaviourism and contains as well the kernel of the Frege-Geach objection to experessivism.Module Leader: Han Van
Wietmarschen
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 3500 words
Capacity: 25Description:  There are many differences between us. I am
writing this, for example, and you are reading it. If you take this module, I
will decide what the readings are, and what we do in class. I will mark your
essays, and you will evaluate my teaching. Nonetheless, I am your equal. It should
treat you as my equal, and you should treat me as your equal. You are neither
my superior nor my inferior.What does it mean for us
to be equals? What would it take for each of us to be, and be regarded and
treated as, equals? What would a society be like if it were a society of
equals? Is equality a genuine moral or political ideal? In this course, we
investigate these questions, drawing on insights from philosophy, economics,
anthropology, sociology, and history.Examples of reading
materials:Thomas Hobbes: LeviathanJ.J. Rousseau: Discourse
on InequalityChristopher Boehm:
Hierarchy in the ForestJohn Rawls: Theory of
JusticeRonald Dworkin: What is
Equality?  James Whitman: Harsh
Justice Martha Nussbaum: Women and
Human Development: the Capabilities ApproachAmartya Sen: Equality of
What?Elizabeth Anderson: What
is the point of equality? Samuel Scheffler: What is
Egalitarianism? Karl Marx: CapitalElizabeth Anderson: The
Imperative of IntegrationTommie Shelby: We Who Are
DarkErving Goffman: StigmaW.E.B. Du Bois: The Souls
of Black Folk Module Leader: Luke Fenton-Glynn
Term: 2
Area: A
Assessment: 2 Sets of exercises (15% each) and Essay (2500 wds - 70%)
Capacity: 25Description:  Students will be introduced to the topic of formal epistemology. This will involve teaching the basic principles of probability theory, the arguments that have been given that a rational agent’s degrees of belief are represented by a probability function, and the arguments for and against principles that have been proposed concerning how a rational agent’s degrees of belief are constrained (both synchronically and in their evolution over time). Expected Utility Theory will also be introduced, and critically evaluated, as the orthodox decision theory for agents with probabilistic degrees of belief. Module Leader: Ulrike HeuerTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 3500 wordsCapacity: 25Description: The module explores theories of responsibility in attempting to account for the grounds and the limits of what we are responsible for. In doing so the module will examine distinct conceptions of responsibility and some fundamental challenges that arise in relation to it (e.g. whether responsibility is an incoherent concept, or whether there is ‘moral luck’). In light of these general considerations the module will then aim to explore related topics, such as blameworthiness, excuses and collective responsibility. The fundamental aim is to understand the nature of responsibility, and the resources contemporary theoretic approaches may (or may not) have in attempting to account for our ways of ascribing actions to ourselves and others, and judging them.   Module Leader: Douglas
Lavin
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 3500 wordsCapacity: 25Description:  Investigation of a familiar and puzzling
elements of moral life, e.g., promising, forgiveness, authority, pride/shame,
pleasure, respect/humiliation, self-control, love and friendship,
competitiveness. Topics and texts may
differ year to year. For more information please email d.lavin@ucl.ac.ukModule Leader: Ethan NowakTerm: 2 Area: A
Assessment: Essay 2000 words (70%) and problem sets (30%)
Capacity: 25Description:This module introduces the technical machinery of contemporary linguistic semantics, and explores the philosophical foundations and applications of the same. The module begins with an exploration of the significance of two ideas: a.) that knowing the truth conditions associated with an assertoric sentence is knowing its meaning and b.) that a theory of meaning for natural language must be compositional. The rest of the module is devoted to the construction of a formal theory that combines those ideas with the Fregean principle of type-driven interpretation to explain the behavior of simple sentences, relative clauses, quantificational constructions, demonstratives, and other philosophically-interesting expression types. Significant familiarity with formal methods is presupposed. Students who do not have experience with intermediate or advanced logic should consult the instructor before registering for this module.Module Leader: Various
Term: 1 and 2 (= 1 course unit)
Area: A / B or C
Assessment: Essay 8000
Capacity: n/aDescription: Enrolment requires approval by your personal tutor. A 8000-word essay on a philosophical topic approved by your personal tutor. Tuition involves four sessions of one-on-one supervision by a member of staff. The dissertation submission deadline is 1st day of 3rd term by 4.00 pm. Currently no pre-requisites and no prior grade requirement for the dissertation.· Open to final year
students only.· Open only to
students taking single-honours Philosophy or a combined honours degree
involving Philosophy.0.5 credit unitsModule Aims: To provide students with an
understanding of an area of current philosophical research and to offer them
the opportunity of engaging in the methodology of philosophical research
practiced in leading research universities in the world. The student should
gain experience of the method of study and instruction expected of a graduate
student in the first years of a research degree.Intended Learning Outcomes: The student
will produce a significant piece of writing in the relevant research area. The
student will gain an understanding of the key issues in that area of the
discipline, and will encounter some of the core classical readings and/or some
of the most important recent literature on the topic. They will gain an
understanding of research methods in philosophy.Module Structure: Students who meet the eligibility
criteria outlined below can, subject to space and with approval of the
Departmental Tutor and the module leader, select a graduate-level module from
among the following options:Tuition: Students will attend all
seminars for the module that they select. In recognition of the fact that
graduate-level courses are more demanding than undergraduate courses,
undergraduates taking the Guided Research Module (GRM) will receive additional
support in the form of three tutorials (i.e. small group meetings) with the
leader of the graduate module.Assessment: Students will complete
a summative essay of the same length as the graduate students (4,500 words) due
for submission on the first day of the term following the term in which the
module is taken. Eligibility and Selection: To be
eligible for the GRM students must have a weighted average of at least 65 in
the modules they have taken in their first and second year (modules taken in
the second year are weighted three times as heavily as first year modules). A
maximum of two undergraduate students may take each of the modules listed above
(this may be fewer if the module is oversubscribed, since graduate students
will be given priority). In the event that more than two undergraduates with a
weighted average of 65 or above apply to take the same graduate module (or more
than one if there’s only space for one undergraduate on the module), then the
students with the highest weighted averages will be selected.Module Leader: Various - Convenor Fiona Leigh
Term: 2
Area: A, B or C
Assessment: Participation in class (10%) Presentations (15%) Essay (3000 words = 75%)Description: This module is designed to allow students to build on their introductory tutorial module. Students will discuss a variety of central philosophical texts on fundamental topics in a broad area of their choice. The module will allow them to enhance their skills in philosophical discussion, oral presentation and essay writing. Students will be placed in tutorial groups of around five, ensuring that everyone has a chance to participate in debate, and to receive feedback on their oral presentations and written work during the course. The texts studied will be selected by the course tutor in consultation with the module convenor. Students enrolled in the 3rd Year Tutorial
Module, are asked to nominate their top two preferences for the kind of
philosophy to be studied in the module, either Theoretical Philosophy (A),
Practical Philosophy (B), or Historical Philosophy (C). The Department will
endeavour to allocate students to one of their top two preferences, wherever
possible. Students will be allocated to an instructor (a Postgraduate Teaching Assistant),
and in the first week of class (or possibly in the week before), will be given
a syllabus and reading list. During the semester students will in alternate
weeks present or read aloud draft essays (of about 2000 words) to the small
group, in response to the overarching topic and in light of the reading list.
The group will then discuss the work critically and offer suggestions for
improvement, or indicate further questions or lines of inquiry. The assessment
will be a 3,000 word essay produced as a result of the draft essays discussed
during the semester.In addition BA Philosophy students can take the following modules in ESPS (European Social and Political Studies) as Philosophy modules (i.e. do not count as a module from another department): For more information about the ESPS modules above please see the ESPS website.The following modules can only be taken by students studying Philosophy degrees (Single and Combined Honours):
PHIL1017: Philosophy Tutorials / PHIL3TBD Dissertation/ PHIL3101 Advanced Tutorials and PHIL3100 Guided Research Module.
Registration for all modules is via Portico. Once Philosophy students have registered their modules spare places will be allocated on a first come first served basis. All modules are half-units (0.5 UCL credit = 7.5 ECTS). Modules that are coded PHIL1_ and PHIL2_ have a compulsory weekly seminar in addition to the weekly lectures. The semiars are automatically allocated via the common timetable to fit
with your module choices once the module selection has been approved by both departments. PHIL3_ modules run as 2 hour weekly seminars, some have a fortnightly discussion class as well.Modules that begin PHIL1___ are introductory level; modules that begin with PHIL2___ are intermediate level primarily for second year students; modules that begin with
PHIL3___ are advanced courses.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The Undergraduate Programme Administrator Cassilda Alcobia-Murphy is the first point of contact for enquiries about:Personal tutors contacts are available here, they should be contacted about the following:Students should contact the Departmental Tutor, Luke Fenton-Glynn, about the following:BA students can also contact their student academic representative (StAR) about matters they would like discussed at the staff-student consultative committee. 
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Lateness penalties for Undergraduate and Postgraduate (Taught) essays:Planning, time-management and the meeting of deadlines are
part of the personal and professional skills expected of all graduates. For
this reason, UCL expects students to submit all coursework by the published
deadline date and time, after which penalties will be applied.If a student experiences something which prevents them from
meeting a deadline that is sudden, unexpected, significantly disruptive and
beyond their control, they should submit an Extenuating Circumstances (EC) Form.
If the request is accepted, the student may be granted an extension. If the
deadline has already passed, the late submission may be condoned i.e. there
will be no penalty for submitting late.Further information:· Late Submission Penalties· Extenuating CircumstancesPenalties for over-length coursework, including dissertations: Assessed work should not exceed the prescribed word count. References and footnotes count towards the word limit; the bibliography, title and cover sheet do not.Minimum LengthPlease note there is no automatic penalty for under-length essays providing there is sufficient suitable content.Reuse of materialAny paper submitted by you is presumed to be original work that has not previously been submitted for another course. You should therefore, as a rule, avoid writing on topics that you have written on previously. If you consider that there is good reason for you to revisit a topic, or to overlap with previously submitted work, then you must consult, and obtain prior written approval from the course tutor. If permission is granted, the onus will nevertheless remain on you to avoid mere duplication.Plagiarism
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Supervision list for MA Philosophy dissertations.Two copies of your MA dissertation are due in the Departmental Office by 4pm on Friday 1 September 2017.You also need to submit this on the Moodle site by this deadline too.Dissertations should be handed in as follows:
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The Graduate Programme Administrator, Richard Edwards, is the first point of contact for all enquiries about the MA programmes in the Philosophy Department.Personal tutors contacts are available here, they should be contacted about the following:Students should contact the MA Tutor, Ulrike Heuer about the following:MA students can also contact their student academic representative (StAR) about matters they would like discussed at the staff-student consultative committee. 

				 Below is the list of modules running in the 2017/18 academic year - click on the title for more information. Module leader email addresses can be found via the staff pages:For times and locations please use the UCL common timetable.Module Leader: Ulrike HeuerTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: BA \ MPhilThe module explores theories
of responsibility in attempting to account for the grounds and the limits of
what we are responsible for. In doing so the module will examine distinct
conceptions of responsibility and some fundamental challenges that arise in
relation to it (e.g. whether responsibility is an incoherent concept, or
whether there is ‘moral luck’). In light of these general considerations the
module will then aim to explore related topics, such as blameworthiness,
excuses and collective responsibility. The fundamental aim is to understand the
nature of responsibility, and the resources contemporary theoretic approaches
may (or may not) have in attempting to account for our ways of ascribing
actions to ourselves and others, and judging them.Module Leader: James Wilson
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhilDescription:  This module explores ethical questions in global
health by connecting the literature in global health with recent writings in
moral and political philosophy. The first half raises some more general issues
about global inequalities in health and their causes, and then explores some
central issues in moral and political philosophy, including the normative
significance of nations, and human rights approaches to health. The second half
looks at some more specific issues where philosophers have contributed to
debates in global health, including the ethics of research in developing
countries and access to pharmaceuticals. Module Leader: José Zalabardo
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 4500 Shared: BA \ MPhilDescription:  The purpose of this course is to present some of
the central doctrines of Wittgenstein’s Tractatus-: the Tractarian Account of
Representation and Reality (TARR). We can characterise TARR as involving three
main components.The first component of TARR
is the view that everyday propositions don’t represent the world directly: they
represent the world through the mediation of a class of postulated
propositions, known as elementary propositions (Elementarsätze). Everyday
propositions represent the world by being truth functions of elementary
propositions.The second component of TARR
is an account of the nature of elementary propositions and of how they
represent the world. On this account, an elementary proposition is a
combination of items known as names. Names are referential expressions. An
elementary proposition represents the referents of its names as combined with
one another in the same way in which the names are combined in the proposition.
The proposition is true if the referents are so combined; false if they are
not. The referents of names are simple items known as objects. The combinations
of objects that elementary propositions represent as obtaining are known as
states of affairs (Sachverhalte).The third component of TARR
is an account of the structure of reality, according to which a possible state
of the world is constituted by the states of affairs that obtain in it. Two
states of the world differ from one another only if there are states of affairs
that obtain in one and not in the other. And for every set of states of affairs
there is a possible state of the world in which the states of affairs that
obtain are precisely the elements of the set.Thus, according to TARR,
elementary propositions and states of affairs provide the interface between
language and the world. Propositions represent the world by their
truth-functional dependence on elementary propositions. These, in turn,
represent states of affairs. This enables propositions to represent the whole
of reality, since everything that is the case, and everything that can be the
case, consists in the obtaining and non-obtaining of states of affairs—what
truth functions of elementary propositions represent.Taken as an intuitive model,
TARR is fairly easy to understand—we can form a conception of what things would
have to be like in order for TARR to be correct. A precise, literal
understanding of the view is much harder to achieve. And it is even harder to
grasp why anyone would think that this is how things are in actuality—that language
and reality have the structure that TARR attributes to them and that the former
represents the latter as TARR says it does. Specifically, it is hard to
understand why Wittgenstein thought this. Addressing these questions is the
main goal of this course.The lectures will be based on
a book I’m writing on the topic: Representation and Reality in Wittgenstein’s
Tractatus. It’s available to students on Moodle. Please do not circulate
without permission.TOPICS1. Russell’s dual-relation
theory of judgment2. Russell’s
multiple-relation theory of judgment3. Russell and Wittgenstein
on forms4. Wittgenstein’s picture
theory5. Frege on unity and
unsaturatedness6. Wittgenstein on the unity
of the proposition7. Wittgenstein on the unity
of facts8. Objects and expressions as
common structural features9. Substance and simplicity  I tend to use the Pears and McGuinness,
but although they differ in important respects, either would be fine.I have prepared a hypertext
version of the Pears and McGuinness translation. It doesn't work on some
browsers.If you know any German, there
is a very useful edition by Joachim Schulte and Brian McGuinness, collating sections of the Tractatus with relevant
passages from preliminary manuscripts.Another important primary
source is Wittgenstein's Notebooks, 1914-1916.
This volume contains the main extant manuscripts from the period when
Wittgenstein was working on the Tractatus.Frege and RussellWe will be paying close
attention to the origin of Wittgenstein's ideas in the work of Russell and
Frege. We will be looking mainly at the following texts: Many of them make some good
points but they all differ in important respects from the interpretation that
I'll be presenting. The following might be particularly useful: Articles and book chapters I will recommend readings on
particular topics in the lectures, but here is an unsystematic selection of
interesting articles on the issues that we will be discussing: Module Leader: Lucy O'BrienTerm:
1 Area: Assessment: Essay 4500 Shared: This course will introduce
UCL Philosophy Masters students to graduate study in philosophy and to
philosophical discussion. Each week all
students will have read in advance a classic piece of analytic philosophy, and
one student will give an oral presentation to initiate a discussion of the
reading, which is moderated by the convenor.Module Leader: Sebastian
GardnerTerm: 2Area: n/aAssessment: Exam 2hrShared: nThis course builds on
PHILGA11 and continues to train UCL Philosophy MA students in the critical
interpretation and analysis of philosophical texts, and in the practice of
philosophical discussion. Each week is devoted to a different topic or problem,
drawn from a variety of areas. Students are expected to complete the reading –
usually two items, which may be classic papers or short historical texts – and
to prepare their thoughts in advance. Two students give an oral presentation to
initiate the discussion, which is moderated by the convenor, and to which all
are expected to contribute.Module Leader: Véronique
Munoz-DardéTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhil This year’s topic is intimate markets. The course will raise and pursue a number of questions including: Are some markets morally noxious? Should some things not be for sale (for example, surrogacy, sexual services, body parts)? Is there such a thing as self-ownership? How, if at all, does the idea of self-ownership explain, or offer a critique of the notion of intimate markets?Note that some of the materials in this course overlap with those discussed in last year’s Regulation of Intimacy. For that reason, this course is not open to students who have previously taken that course. Module Leader: Fiona LeighTerm: 2Area: CAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhilThe course focuses on
Aristotle’s philosophy of mind and moral psychology. After an brief
introduction in the first week to the central tenets of his metaphysics and
epistemology, the course will cover topics including Aristotle's views human
nature and human flourishing, the kinds of cognitive capacities attributable to
humans and non-human animals, the emotions, virtue ethics, the doctrine of the
mean and learning to be good, weakness of the will, and the role of
contemplation in the good life. The central primary texts will be de Anima and
the Nicomachean Ethics, although other texts will be consulted. A sample
syllabi, with the relevant primary texts, is as follows: Leader: Lucy O'Brien
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhil Description:  This module is concerned to explore the ways in
which subjects are conscious of themselves. The first six weeks will be
concerned to consider and critically evaluate a number of distinct approaches
to the ways in which we come to know our own psychological lives. The first
three weeks (Section I) will focus on knowledge of belief, and the next three
weeks (Section II) will focus on knowledge of action. In both subsections of
the course a perceptual account of our knowledge of our beliefs and actions
will be contrasted with what we might called practical account of self-knowledge.
An inferential model as an alternative to both will also be considered. In the
last week of Section II (on Libet) students will be presented with arguments
from the neuroscience literature that aim to suggest that actions are not in
fact brought about by the decisions or intentions of agents - but are
automatically produced. The conclusiveness of these arguments will be evaluated
and more recent work in neuroscience suggesting hat Libet’s original
conclusions will be reviewed. The final section of the course (Section III)
will be concerned to explore the nature and significance of a different kind of
consciousness we have of ourselves, that is a consciousness mediated by the
consciousness of other people. Interpersonal self-consciousness is a consciousness
of ourselves as the object of consciousness of another. The course will
consider the nature of such consciousness and will argue that it should be play
an important role in our theory of the self-conscious emotions. The emotion of
shame will be a case study. The course will end by considering the ways in
which human beings can induce and escape such interpersonal self-consciousness.
Module Leader: Mark Kalderon
Term: 2
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhilDescription:  An introduction to advanced themes in the
philosophy of perception through a comparison of vision, audition, and touch.Recommended general
background reading:  Module Leader: Rory Madden
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 4500
Shared: MPhilDescription: The aim of this graduate
research seminar is to reach an understanding and assessment of some early
analytic writings about the self. Readings may range from late 19th Century
influences such as Brentano and James, through Russell, Wittgenstein, Broad,
and Schlick, and as far as Grice and Strawson in the mid-20th Century.
Background reading: Russell, Bertrand. ‘Knowledge by Acquaintance and Knowledge by Description’ Proceedings of
the Aristotelian Society 1910-11Module Leader: Mark Kalderon
Term: 1
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 4500
Shared: BA \ MPhilDescription: 20th Century Philosophy is
dedicated to reading great if neglected texts of the twentieth century. The
text varies year by year. This year we shall be reading Peter Geach’s Mental
Acts. Mental Acts contains, inter alia, an influential critique of behaviourism
and contains as well the kernel of the Frege-Geach objection to experessivism.Module Leader: Tom Stern
Term: 2
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 4500
Shared: MPhil StudDescription: This module is a research
seminar in 19th century philosophy. Subject matter can vary year by year, but
might include: the philosophy of Nietzsche, Hegel, Schopenhauer and related
figures in the history of philosophy. In 2017/18, the focus of the class will
be on Hegel's account of 'self-consciousness' in his Phenomenology of Spirit.
This includes his account of recognition and the famous 'master-slave
dialectic'.Module Leader: Mark KalderonTerm: 
Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MPhilThis course is intended to
take students through key recent contributions within the Philosophy of
Perception or the Metaphysics of Sensibilia (such as colour or sound). This
year we shall be reading Mazvitta Chirimuuta’s Outside Color. All members of
the class are required to prepare the reading each week. One student each week
will be responsible for giving a short presentation on the work, and the class
as a whole will then discuss any issues raised.Module Leader: James WilsonTerm: 1Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MPhilThis module examines some
central ethical ethical, economic and political problems facing health policy
in the UK and abroad, especially in relation to social justice. Topics covered
include: how to allocate healthcare resources (e.g. should the NHS cover all
new drug treatments, regardless of how expensive they are? Who should decide?);
the appropriate role of the state in protecting and promoting health (e.g.
should smoking be banned?); when inequalities in health and life expectancy are
unfair; and special challenges posed by infectious diseases.Module Leader: Luke
Fenton-GlynnTerm: 1Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhilIn this module, we will cover
three central topics in the metaphysics of science: causation, chance and the
laws of nature. Questions to be addressed include: What are laws of nature? Are
there laws other than those described by physics (for instance, are there laws
of biology or economics)? What is probability? Are there objective probabilities
(chances) in the world? How do chances relate to laws? What is causation? How
does causation relate to chance? No background in science or probability theory
is needed for this course. Sample questions: • Are laws of nature mere
regularities? • Are the generalisations of
the special sciences (e.g. biology, chemistry, economics) genuine laws of nature? • Are the special sciences
reducible to physics? • Is all probability
subjective, or are there objective probabilities in the world? • Can causation be understood
in terms of probabilistic relations between events? • Can structural equations
approaches to causation help us overcome the difficulties facing more
traditional philosophical accounts of causation? • Can the direction of
causation and the direction of time be reduced to the direction of entropy
increase? No background in science or
probability theory is needed for this course. Module Leader: David SedleyTerm: Fortnightly across terms 1 and 2
Area: C
Assessment: Essay 4500 words
Shared: MPhil StudDescription: This course will discuss a topic of philosophical significance in the field of ancient philosophy, as presented by the Keeling Scholar in Ancient Philosophy, in their first year of tenure. The course may focus on a particular text, such as a Platonic dialogue, an Aristotelian treatise, or a set of thematically unified fragments from a Pre-Socratic philosopher or Hellenistic philosopher or school. Alternatively, it may discuss a topic or interconnected set of issues that is treated over a number of ancient texts, such as for example ‘self-knowledge in classical philosophical thought’, or ‘the relation between form, universal and essence in Aristotle’, or ‘virtue ethics in Plato’s middle and late dialogues’.Module Leader: Amanda GreeneTerm: 3 Area: BAssessment: Essay 4,500 words
(76%) Written commentary and oral presentation on reading (500 words -
12%) Peer review of commentary (12%)Shared: MPhilThis module focuses on key
topics in legal philosophy. It is intended for postgraduate students who have
had prior experience in moral or political philosophy. Topics will vary by
year, but may include obligation to obey the law, legal interpretation,
constitutional theory, punishment, authority, etc.Module Leader: Han van
WietmarschenTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MPhilReadings will be based on
important books or papers published in the last few years. Students will be
expected to read one or more chapters or papers each week, and come to the
class ready to lead or contribute to discussion of the work set. Students will
be examined by means of an essay on one or more of the topics covered in the
class.Module Leader: Ulrike HeuerTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: MPhilThe module explores theories
of responsibility in attempting to account for the grounds and the limits of
what we are responsible for. In doing so the module will examine distinct
conceptions of responsibility and some fundamental challenges that arise in
relation to it (e.g. whether responsibility is an incoherent concept, or
whether there is ‘moral luck’). In light of these general considerations the
module will then aim to explore related topics, such as blameworthiness,
excuses and collective responsibility. The fundamental aim is to understand the
nature of responsibility, and the resources contemporary theoretic approaches
may (or may not) have in attempting to account for our ways of ascribing
actions to ourselves and others, and judging them.Module Leader: Amia
Srinivasan
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhilDescription:  This course will be an advanced introduction to
the philosophical issues raised and addressed by the ongoing fight for women's
liberation from patriarchal oppression. Topics include: the metaphysics of
gender, intersectionality, feminism and trans issues, feminist epistemology,
pornography, sex and sexual 'liberation', feminist critiques of liberalism and
capitalism, and the relationship between feminism and philosophy. Module Leader: Véronique
Munoz-Dardé
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: MPhilDescription:  The course aims to provide graduate Philosophy
students with an understanding of some central themes, theories and arguments
in ethics, society and political philosophy. The topic for 2017/18 is Contractualism and its Critics.This seminar will be organized around contractualist approaches in contemporary political philosophy. The seminar will pursue three key themes. First, authority: Is the principal concern of political theory the authority of the state and the source of our obligations to obey state institutions and its agents? If not, what should our principal concerns in political philosophy be? Second, the weight of numbers: Aren’t aggregative concerns intuitively compelling in certain social policy contexts? Does that show that we must move beyond a pure individualistic perspective to one in which consequential outcomes are part of the measure of justice? Third, equality: Is equality or fairness a political value in itself? In what sense can a position claim to be egalitarian or guided by equality if it denies that equality has a special value?In pursuing these questions, we will consider writings by T. M. Scanlon, John Rawls, Joseph Raz and G. A. Cohen, as well as some historical texts from Jean-Jacques Rousseau and David Hume.Module Leader: Luke
Fenton-GlynnTerm: 2Area: AAssessment: 2 Sets of
exercises (15% each) and 1 essay (2500 wds - 70%)Shared: BA \ MPhilStudents will be introduced
to the topic of formal epistemology. This will involve teaching the basic
principles of probability theory, the arguments that have been given that a
rational agent’s degrees of belief are represented by a probability function,
and the arguments for and against principles that have been proposed concerning
how a rational agent’s degrees of belief are constrained (both synchronically
and in their evolution over time). Expected Utility Theory will also be
introduced, and critically evaluated, as the orthodox decision theory for
agents with probabilistic degrees of belief.Module Leader: Douglas LavinTerm: 1Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MPhilThis is a graduate level
study of contemporary work in the philosophy of action. Topics include: the
nature and explanation of action, temporality of action, practical knowledge,
skill and practical reasoning. Various
authors considered with special attention to G. E. M. Anscombe and Donald
Davidson.Module Leader: Douglas Lavin
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: MPhilDescription:  A graduate level study of some important recent
work in practical philosophy. For more information please email d.lavin@ucl.ac.ukModule Leader: Douglas Lavin
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhilDescription:  Investigation of a familiar and puzzling
elements of moral life, e.g., promising, forgiveness, authority, pride/shame,
pleasure, respect/humiliation, self-control, love and friendship, competitiveness. Topics and texts may differ year to year. For more information please email d.lavin@ucl.ac.ukModule Leader: Ethan NowakTerm: 2Area: AAssessment: Essay 3000 words
(70%) and problem sets (30%)Shared: BA \ MPhilThis module introduces the
technical machinery of contemporary linguistic semantics, and explores the
philosophical foundations and applications of the same. The module begins with
an exploration of the significance of two ideas: a.) that knowing the truth
conditions associated with an assertoric sentence is knowing its meaning and
b.) that a theory of meaning for natural language must be compositional. The
rest of the module is devoted to the construction of a formal theory that
combines those ideas with the Fregean principle of type-driven interpretation
to explain the behavior of simple sentences, relative clauses, quantificational
constructions, demonstratives, and other philosophically-interesting expression
types. Significant familiarity with formal methods is presupposed. Students who
do not have experience with intermediate or advanced logic should consult the
instructor before registering for this module. Module Leader: Joe Horton
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 words 
Shared: MPhil Description: Is there any number of people you should save from paralysis rather than saving one person from death? Is there any number of people you should save from a headache rather than saving one person from death? Many people answer these questions ‘yes’ and ‘no’ respectively. In this course, we will consider whether this position can be defended, by evaluating recent work on aggregation in ethics. Module Leader: Joe HortonTerm: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: BA \ MPhilDescription: Effective Altruism is a relatively new social movement, but it has already had a significant impact. Its primary aim is to encourage people to use evidence and careful reasoning to do the most good possible with their charitable donations. An important secondary aim is to encourage people to give more to the most effective charities. In this course, we will consider a variety of philosophical questions and controversies surrounding the Effective Altruism movement. These questions include:Should we be Effective Altruists?What justifies Effective Altruism? — Must Effective Altruists be Utilitarians or Consequentialists, or can they also be Non-Consequentialists?What charitable causes do the most good?Should we buy products made in sweatshops?Should we care about human suffering more than animal suffering?Which matters more: ending poverty or controlling artificial intelligence?Should we prioritise preventing the suffering of people who are alive now over preventing the suffering of future generations?Does the threat of future human extinction matter for us here and now? Module Leader: Robert SimpsonTerm: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: BA \ MPhilDescription: In this module we will examine the various conceptions of ‘autonomy’ that have been appealed to by philosophers and legal theorists as part of a defense of free speech principles. We will also survey some influential conceptions of autonomy that have been espoused by moral philosophers. Our overarching aim will be to consider how successful an autonomy-based defense of free speech is, or could be, and what the most persuasive or promising form of such a defense might involve. Module Leader: Mat SimpsonTerm: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: BA \ MPhilDescription: Metaethics involves questions about the nature of value and of ethical thought and language. In this course students will learn about four prominent metaethical theories – naturalism, non-naturalism, constructivism, and expressivism. They will then study four recent debates which each have interesting connections with other areas of philosophy – the question of whether moral judgements motivate, the evolutionary debunking of morality, moral testimony and disagreement, and the problem of creeping minimalism. Module Leader: Mat Simpson
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 4500 words
Shared:BA \ MPhil Description: In this module we will investigate the relationship between the world and our representation of it by our language and thoughts. We will study a number of philosophical debates from the last century, which all center on the idea that our theories about human language and thought will in some way affect what we think about reality. Topics studied will include reference and non-existence objects, modality and causation, pragmatism about truth, non-representational theories of meaning and anti-metaphysical arguments. Text include:- Ian Hacking, 1975, Why Does Language Matter to Philosophy? (Cambridge University Press)- Amie Thomasson, 2015, Ontology Made Easy (Oxford University Press)- Steven Gross, Nicholas Tebbe and Michael Williams, eds., 2015, Meaning without Representation (Oxford University Press)- Huw Price, ed., 2013 Expressivism, Pragmatism and Representationalism, (Cambridge University Press) Module Leader: James WilsonTerm: 1Assessment: Essay 4000This interdisciplinary module explores the experience of illness. It focuses in particular on tensions between subjective and objective, examining how rich and socially embedded interpretive responses to the experience of illness, can and should be brought into dialogue with biomedical, philosophical, and sociological understandings of the same phenomena.The first half of the course focuses on the role of narrative in constituting selves and illness experiences. We examine some ways in which those living with illness construct narratives to give expression to their experiences, and what a focus experience and narratives adds to a more biomedical conception of illness. The second half focuses on the intersection between biology, power and culture in constructing responses to illness, examining ideas of care and suffering, disability, stigma, illness experiences that struggle to receive recognition from biomedical science, and living under genetic risk.  

				    
				 Fiona Leigh  For contact details please see the UCL directory. My
main area of research is in the metaphysics of mind and action, with a
particular focus on the temporal aspects of rational human agency. I also have
interests in the foundations of value, and in Kant, Frege, and Wittgenstein.Interests: Philosophy of psychiatry, the self,
  the emotions, history of philosophy & Phenomenology Current: My PhD thesis proposes a particular
  relationship between shame and the self, and in light of this, argues for a
  particular interpretation of bodily shame.  Interests: formal semantics, logic, philosophy
of language and of linguistics, the ontology of musical works Interests: Philosophy of Perception and Psychology; Metaphysics
and Epistemology Current: In the past few years I have been focusing on the
relation between visual attention and consciousness. Now in the
PhD dissertation Sense, Space, and Self, I seek to argue
that the first-person is in many ways implicated in sense perception and bodily
awareness. I am also interested in various areas in psychology, such as
attention, cross-modal effects, and cognitive development. I have been doing
joint works with Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, UCL, and Institute of
Philosophy, University of London.Web: http://philpapers.org/s/tony%20cheng Interests: Ancient Philosophy, especially
  Aristotle's metaphysics. I also have an interest in so
  called 'existentialist' ontologies, especially those of Sartre and
  Kierkegaard.Current: I am currently working on the role
  played by the 'active intellect', elsewhere termed 'the unmoved mover'
  or 'god', in Aristotle's metaphysics.Interests: Early Modern Philosophy,
Aesthetics, Hume, Kant, philosophical practice. Current research: Early eighteenth-century
British conceptions of the sublime. My PhD explores the psychological, moral,
and metaphysical commitments of accounts prior to Edmund Burke,
particularly John Dennis and Shaftesbury. It expands on and
challenges aspects of the existing view of the sublime in the history of
aesthetics. Blog: howtobeaphilosopher.wordpress.comInterests: Philosophy of Language, Aesthetics,
  Philosophy of Mind and Psychology.Current research: My PhD considers the cognitive underpinnings of
the propositional imagination and looks at how the propositional imagination
features in debates in aesthetics and philosophy of mind and psychology.Interests: Aesthetics, philosophy of art, and neuroaesthetics;
interdisciplinary philosophy of psychology, esp. Gestaltism; metaphilosophy and
experimental philosophy; phenomenology, existentialism, and absurdism.Current: Generally, my work focuses on methodology and
interdisciplinarity in philosophical aesthetics. My MPhil thesis concerns the
Analytic Aestheticians of the mid-20C and their attempted methodological shift,
especially for the notions of analyticity and systematicity. My PhD thesis
shall sketch what I call a 'methodologically prior' aesthetics.  Website:
 http://taylorinlondon.wix.com/taylordenoch Interests: Ethics,
Value theory, Practical reason, Political philosophy. I’m
currently interested in what it could mean for something to be ‘priceless’. In
the face of the highly influential aggregative picture of individual practical
reasoning, this is hard. Importantly, the issue affects how we conceive of
well-being, which I believe must import qualitative and not just quantitative
distinctions in value. These might be expressed in terms of some notion of
need, as opposed to what is unnecessary.Interests: Political and Moral Philosophy.Current: Issues of state legitimacy, state
  coercion, anarchism and the relation of these to questions of feasibility. I
  have also done work on the concept of feasibility generally and its role in
  political and moral philosophy and intend to continue this and incorporate it
  into the above. My
research aims to demonstrate how an account of persons as animals might
helpfully contribute to other debates in which an account of personhood
might be expected to play a key theoretical role (e.g. in value theory and the
philosophy of mind). I'm currently looking into the role that an account of
animal nature might play in the interpretation and evaluation of other
people's evaluative perspectives, and into related ideas concerning a
distinctively human second nature/ethical upbringing.' Interests: Ethics, Normativity, Philosophy of Mind, Philosophy of
Action. Current Research: I'm looking at what makes the moral 'must'
distinctive, and in light of this, what has to be true if we are to be subject
to moral obligations at all. Interests: Philosophy of mind and psychology, philosophy of action,
epistemology.
 
 Current: Rationality and irrationality; theories of rationality and irrationality
in philosophy and psychology; values, ways of thinking and ‘rationalising’
explanation; intersubjective understanding and ‘the agent's point of view’.Interests: Philosophy of Mathematics,
  Epistemology and Philosophy of Science.Current research: I am working towards an
  account of explanation in mathematics.Interests: Philosophy of Mind and Philosophy of Language: I am interested in the content, ascription and
epistemology of neglected psychological attitudes (e.g. non-representational
attitudes like desire, non-propositional attitudes, de se attitudes). My
research has led me to think about interrogatives and imperatives in natural
language. I am also interested in how these attitudes interact, the nature of
attitudinal conflict or inconsistency, and associated issues like Moore’s
Paradox.  For contact details
please see the UCL directory.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				 Fiona Leigh  For contact details please see the UCL directory. My
main area of research is in the metaphysics of mind and action, with a
particular focus on the temporal aspects of rational human agency. I also have
interests in the foundations of value, and in Kant, Frege, and Wittgenstein.Interests: Philosophy of psychiatry, the self,
  the emotions, history of philosophy & Phenomenology Current: My PhD thesis proposes a particular
  relationship between shame and the self, and in light of this, argues for a
  particular interpretation of bodily shame.  Interests: formal semantics, logic, philosophy
of language and of linguistics, the ontology of musical works Interests: Philosophy of Perception and Psychology; Metaphysics
and Epistemology Current: In the past few years I have been focusing on the
relation between visual attention and consciousness. Now in the
PhD dissertation Sense, Space, and Self, I seek to argue
that the first-person is in many ways implicated in sense perception and bodily
awareness. I am also interested in various areas in psychology, such as
attention, cross-modal effects, and cognitive development. I have been doing
joint works with Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, UCL, and Institute of
Philosophy, University of London.Web: http://philpapers.org/s/tony%20cheng Interests: Ancient Philosophy, especially
  Aristotle's metaphysics. I also have an interest in so
  called 'existentialist' ontologies, especially those of Sartre and
  Kierkegaard.Current: I am currently working on the role
  played by the 'active intellect', elsewhere termed 'the unmoved mover'
  or 'god', in Aristotle's metaphysics.Interests: Early Modern Philosophy,
Aesthetics, Hume, Kant, philosophical practice. Current research: Early eighteenth-century
British conceptions of the sublime. My PhD explores the psychological, moral,
and metaphysical commitments of accounts prior to Edmund Burke,
particularly John Dennis and Shaftesbury. It expands on and
challenges aspects of the existing view of the sublime in the history of
aesthetics. Blog: howtobeaphilosopher.wordpress.comInterests: Philosophy of Language, Aesthetics,
  Philosophy of Mind and Psychology.Current research: My PhD considers the cognitive underpinnings of
the propositional imagination and looks at how the propositional imagination
features in debates in aesthetics and philosophy of mind and psychology.Interests: Aesthetics, philosophy of art, and neuroaesthetics;
interdisciplinary philosophy of psychology, esp. Gestaltism; metaphilosophy and
experimental philosophy; phenomenology, existentialism, and absurdism.Current: Generally, my work focuses on methodology and
interdisciplinarity in philosophical aesthetics. My MPhil thesis concerns the
Analytic Aestheticians of the mid-20C and their attempted methodological shift,
especially for the notions of analyticity and systematicity. My PhD thesis
shall sketch what I call a 'methodologically prior' aesthetics.  Website:
 http://taylorinlondon.wix.com/taylordenoch Interests: Ethics,
Value theory, Practical reason, Political philosophy. I’m
currently interested in what it could mean for something to be ‘priceless’. In
the face of the highly influential aggregative picture of individual practical
reasoning, this is hard. Importantly, the issue affects how we conceive of
well-being, which I believe must import qualitative and not just quantitative
distinctions in value. These might be expressed in terms of some notion of
need, as opposed to what is unnecessary.Interests: Political and Moral Philosophy.Current: Issues of state legitimacy, state
  coercion, anarchism and the relation of these to questions of feasibility. I
  have also done work on the concept of feasibility generally and its role in
  political and moral philosophy and intend to continue this and incorporate it
  into the above. My
research aims to demonstrate how an account of persons as animals might
helpfully contribute to other debates in which an account of personhood
might be expected to play a key theoretical role (e.g. in value theory and the
philosophy of mind). I'm currently looking into the role that an account of
animal nature might play in the interpretation and evaluation of other
people's evaluative perspectives, and into related ideas concerning a
distinctively human second nature/ethical upbringing.' Interests: Ethics, Normativity, Philosophy of Mind, Philosophy of
Action. Current Research: I'm looking at what makes the moral 'must'
distinctive, and in light of this, what has to be true if we are to be subject
to moral obligations at all. Interests: Philosophy of mind and psychology, philosophy of action,
epistemology.
 
 Current: Rationality and irrationality; theories of rationality and irrationality
in philosophy and psychology; values, ways of thinking and ‘rationalising’
explanation; intersubjective understanding and ‘the agent's point of view’.Interests: Philosophy of Mathematics,
  Epistemology and Philosophy of Science.Current research: I am working towards an
  account of explanation in mathematics.Interests: Philosophy of Mind and Philosophy of Language: I am interested in the content, ascription and
epistemology of neglected psychological attitudes (e.g. non-representational
attitudes like desire, non-propositional attitudes, de se attitudes). My
research has led me to think about interrogatives and imperatives in natural
language. I am also interested in how these attitudes interact, the nature of
attitudinal conflict or inconsistency, and associated issues like Moore’s
Paradox.  For contact details
please see the UCL directory.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The Graduate Programme Administrator, Richard Edwards, is the first point of contact for all general enquiries about the MPhil Stud, MPhil/PhD and PhD programmes in the Philosophy Department.The Graduate Tutor, Dr Rory Madden (term 1) or Dr Fiona Leigh (terms 2 & 3), is the first point of contact about supervision requests, module choices (MPhil Stud and MPhil/PhD) as well as general pastoral help.Research students have a primary and secondary supervisor assigned. The primary supervisor in Portico is taken to be the member of academic staff who has overall supervisory responsibility in relation to your graduate research. You will also be assigned a secondary supervisor on Portico, and this is ideally a member of staff who will supervise your research for a term on a regular but occasional basis. Each term you will be assigned just one supervisor (your ‘term’ supervisor) to work with for that term listed here.Research students can also contact their student academic representative (StAR) about matters they would like discussed at the staff-student consultative committee. 
 
				Below is the provisional list of modules running in the 2017/18 academic year - click on the title for more information. Module leader email addresses can be found via the staff pages: For times and locations please use the UCL common timetable. If this is showing 2016/17 data you may need to select academic year 2017-2018 in the top right corner.Module Leader: Ulrike HeuerTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: BA \ MAThe module explores theories
of responsibility in attempting to account for the grounds and the limits of
what we are responsible for. In doing so the module will examine distinct
conceptions of responsibility and some fundamental challenges that arise in
relation to it (e.g. whether responsibility is an incoherent concept, or
whether there is ‘moral luck’). In light of these general considerations the
module will then aim to explore related topics, such as blameworthiness,
excuses and collective responsibility. The fundamental aim is to understand the
nature of responsibility, and the resources contemporary theoretic approaches
may (or may not) have in attempting to account for our ways of ascribing
actions to ourselves and others, and judging them.Module Leader: Ulrike HeuerTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: MAThe module explores theories
of responsibility in attempting to account for the grounds and the limits of
what we are responsible for. In doing so the module will examine distinct
conceptions of responsibility and some fundamental challenges that arise in
relation to it (e.g. whether responsibility is an incoherent concept, or
whether there is ‘moral luck’). In light of these general considerations the
module will then aim to explore related topics, such as blameworthiness,
excuses and collective responsibility. The fundamental aim is to understand the
nature of responsibility, and the resources contemporary theoretic approaches
may (or may not) have in attempting to account for our ways of ascribing
actions to ourselves and others, and judging them.Module Leader: Amanda GreeneTerm: 2 and some seminars in term 3.Area: BAssessment: Essay 4,500 words
(76%) Written commentary and oral presentation on reading (500 words -
12%) Peer review of commentary (12%)Shared: MAThis module focuses on key topics in legal philosophy. It is intended for postgraduate students who have had prior experience in moral or political philosophy. Topics will vary by year, but may include obligation to obey the law, legal interpretation, constitutional theory, punishment, authority, etc. Module Leader: David SedleyTerm: Fortnightly across terms 1 and 2 Area: C Assessment: Essay 4500 words Shared: MADescription: This course will discuss a topic of philosophical significance in the field of ancient philosophy, as presented by the Keeling Scholar in Ancient Philosophy, in their first year of tenure. The course may focus on a particular text, such as a Platonic dialogue, an Aristotelian treatise, or a set of thematically unified fragments from a Pre-Socratic philosopher or Hellenistic philosopher or school. Alternatively, it may discuss a topic or interconnected set of issues that is treated over a number of ancient texts, such as for example ‘self-knowledge in classical philosophical thought’, or ‘the relation between form, universal and essence in Aristotle’, or ‘virtue ethics in Plato’s middle and late dialogues’. Module Leader: Mat SimpsonTerm: 1Area: n/aShared: n/aThis module is designed to
train first year MPhil Stud students in the close readings of philosophical texts. It is
intended to be taught before Practical Criticism 2. One text will be chosen for
the whole term and will be read in close detail. Students will write commentaries
on the text every week. Texts can be either contemporary or historical and can
vary year by year. Texts for Practical Criticism
1 will be ‘theoretical’ in nature (i.e. on metaphysics, or epistemology,
philosophy of mind or language, philosophy of logic, science or mathematics
etc.)Module Leader: Amanda Greene & Ulrike HeuerTerm: 1Area: n/aAssessment: PresentationShared: n/aThis module is designed to
familiarize the student with recent research in philosophy in a diverse range
of areas. Recent journal articles are discussed in a seminar led by student
presentations. Each student on the course will be required to make a
presentation at some point in the year.Module Leader: Tom SternTerm: 2Area: CAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MAThis module is a research
seminar in 19th Century Philosophy. Subject matter can vary year by year, but
might include: the philosophy of Nietzsche, Hegel, Schopenhauer and related
figures in the history of philosophy. In 2017/18, the focus of the class will
be on Hegel's account of 'self-consciousness' in his Phenomenology of Spirit.
This includes his account of recognition and the famous 'master-slave
dialectic'.Module Leader: Douglas LavinTerm: 1Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MAThis is a graduate level
study of contemporary work in the philosophy of action. Topics include: the
nature and explanation of action, temporality of action, practical knowledge,
skill and practical reasoning. Various
authors considered with special attention to G. E. M. Anscombe and Donald
Davidson.Module Leader: Véronique
Munoz-DardéTerm: 2Area: n/aShared: n/aThis module is designed to
train first year MPhil Stud students in the close readings of philosophical texts. One
text will be chosen for the whole term and will be read in close detail.
Students will write commentaries on the text every week. Texts can be either
contemporary or historical and can vary year by year. Texts for Practical Criticism
2 will be ’normative’ in nature (i.e. on ethics, or political philosophy,
value theory generally etc.)Module Leader: Luke
Fenton-GlynnTerm: 2Area: AAssessment: 2 Sets of
exercises (15% each) and Essay (2500 wds - 70%)Shared: BA \ MAStudents will be introduced
to the topic of formal epistemology. This will involve teaching the basic
principles of probability theory, the arguments that have been given that a
rational agent’s degrees of belief are represented by a probability function,
and the arguments for and against principles that have been proposed concerning
how a rational agent’s degrees of belief are constrained (both synchronically
and in their evolution over time). Expected Utility Theory will also be
introduced, and critically evaluated, as the orthodox decision theory for
agents with probabilistic degrees of belief.Module Leader: Fiona LeighTerm: 1Area: n/aAssessment:PresentationsShared: n/aThis course will instruct second year MPhil Stud students in the preparation for their thesis, which they will start
writing in their second year. The course will address questions to do with the
content of particular students’ theses, as well as general advice about the
structure and planning of thesis preparation.Module Leader: Rory MaddenTerm: 2 Area: n/aAssessment: PresentationsShared: n/aThis course will continue to instruct second year MPhil Stud students in the preparation for their thesis, which they will be writing in their second year. The course will address questions to do with the
content of particular students’ theses, as well as general advice about the
structure and planning of thesis preparation.Module Leader: Mark KalderonTerm: 1Area: CAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MA20th Century Philosophy is
dedicated to reading great if neglected texts of the twentieth century. The
text varies year by year. This year we shall be reading Peter Geach’s Mental
Acts. Mental Acts contains, inter alia, an influential critique of behaviourism
and contains as well the kernel of the Frege-Geach objection to experessivism.Module Leader: Han van
WietmarschenTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MAReadings will be based on
important books or papers published in the last few years. Students will be
expected to read one or more chapters or papers each week, and come to the
class ready to lead or contribute to discussion of the work set. Students will
be examined by means of an essay on one or more of the topics covered in the
class.Module Leader: Rory MaddenTerm: 1Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MAThe aim of this graduate
research seminar is to reach an understanding and assessment of some early
analytic writings about the self. Readings may range from late 19th Century
influences such as Brentano and James, through Russell, Wittgenstein, Broad,
and Schlick, and as far as Grice and Strawson in the mid-20th Century.
Background reading: Russell, Bertrand. ‘Knowledge by Acquaintance and Knowledge by Description’ Proceedings of
the Aristotelian Society 1910-11Module Leader: Fiona LeighTerm: 2Area: CAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MAThe course focuses on
Aristotle’s philosophy of mind and moral psychology. After an brief
introduction in the first week to the central tenets of his metaphysics and
epistemology, the course will cover topics including Aristotle's views human
nature and human flourishing, the kinds of cognitive capacities attributable to
humans and non-human animals, the emotions, virtue ethics, the doctrine of the
mean and learning to be good, weakness of the will, and the role of contemplation
in the good life. The central primary texts will be de Anima and the
Nicomachean Ethics, although other texts will be consulted. A sample syllabi,
with the relevant primary texts, is as follows: Module Leader: James Wilson 
Term: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MADescription: This module
explores ethical questions in global health by connecting the literature in
global health with recent writings in moral and political philosophy. The first
half raises some more general issues about global inequalities in health and
their causes, and then explores some central issues in moral and political
philosophy, including the normative significance of nations, and human rights
approaches to health. The second half looks at some more specific issues where
philosophers have contributed to debates in global health, including the ethics
of research in developing countries and access to pharmaceuticals.Module Leader: José ZalabardoTerm: 1Area: CAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MAThe purpose of this course is
to present some of the central doctrines of Wittgenstein’s Tractatus-: the
Tractarian Account of Representation and Reality (TARR). We can characterise
TARR as involving three main components.The first component of TARR
is the view that everyday propositions don’t represent the world directly: they
represent the world through the mediation of a class of postulated
propositions, known as elementary propositions (Elementarsätze). Everyday
propositions represent the world by being truth functions of elementary
propositions.The second component of TARR
is an account of the nature of elementary propositions and of how they
represent the world. On this account, an elementary proposition is a
combination of items known as names. Names are referential expressions. An
elementary proposition represents the referents of its names as combined with
one another in the same way in which the names are combined in the proposition.
The proposition is true if the referents are so combined; false if they are
not. The referents of names are simple items known as objects. The combinations
of objects that elementary propositions represent as obtaining are known as
states of affairs (Sachverhalte).The third component of TARR
is an account of the structure of reality, according to which a possible state
of the world is constituted by the states of affairs that obtain in it. Two
states of the world differ from one another only if there are states of affairs
that obtain in one and not in the other. And for every set of states of affairs
there is a possible state of the world in which the states of affairs that
obtain are precisely the elements of the set.Thus, according to TARR,
elementary propositions and states of affairs provide the interface between
language and the world. Propositions represent the world by their
truth-functional dependence on elementary propositions. These, in turn,
represent states of affairs. This enables propositions to represent the whole
of reality, since everything that is the case, and everything that can be the
case, consists in the obtaining and non-obtaining of states of affairs—what
truth functions of elementary propositions represent.Taken as an intuitive model,
TARR is fairly easy to understand—we can form a conception of what things would
have to be like in order for TARR to be correct. A precise, literal
understanding of the view is much harder to achieve. And it is even harder to
grasp why anyone would think that this is how things are in actuality—that
language and reality have the structure that TARR attributes to them and that
the former represents the latter as TARR says it does. Specifically, it is hard
to understand why Wittgenstein thought this. Addressing these questions is the
main goal of this course.The lectures will be based on
a book I’m writing on the topic: Representation and Reality in Wittgenstein’s
Tractatus. It’s available to students on Moodle. Please do not circulate
without permission.TOPICS1. Russell’s dual-relation
theory of judgment2. Russell’s
multiple-relation theory of judgment3. Russell and Wittgenstein
on forms4. Wittgenstein’s picture
theory5. Frege on unity and
unsaturatedness6. Wittgenstein on the unity
of the proposition7. Wittgenstein on the unity
of facts8. Objects and expressions as
common structural features9. Substance and simplicity I tend to use the Pears and McGuinness,
but although they differ in important respects, either would be fine.I have prepared a hypertext
version of the Pears and McGuinness translation. It doesn't work on some
browsers.If you know any German, there
is a very useful edition by Joachim Schulte and Brian McGuinness , collating sections of the Tractatus with relevant
passages from preliminary manuscripts.Another important primary
source is Wittgenstein's Notebooks, 1914-1916 .
This volume contains the main extant manuscripts from the period when
Wittgenstein was working on the Tractatus.Frege and RussellWe will be paying close
attention to the origin of Wittgenstein's ideas in the work of Russell and
Frege. We will be looking mainly at the following texts: Module Leader: Véronique
Munoz-DardéTerm: 2Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MAThis advanced module is
intended to provide students with the opportunity for a focussed exploration of
a variety of topics in political philosophy.This year’s topic is intimate markets. The course will raise and pursue a number of questions including: Are some markets morally noxious? Should some things not be for sale (for example, surrogacy, sexual services, body parts)? Is there such a thing as self-ownership? How, if at all, does the idea of self-ownership explain, or offer a critique of the notion of intimate markets?Note that some of the materials in this course overlap with those discussed in last year’s Regulation of Intimacy. For that reason, this course is not open to students who took that course.Module Leader: Daniel
RothschildTerm: 3Area: AAssessment: Essay (3000 words
- 80%) & Problem Set (20%)Shared: nThis course will discuss a
basic problem in epistemology: how should we change our beliefs in light of new
evidence? We will look at this question
from both a philosophical and logical perspective: examining a variety of
theories to account for belief change. Our main focus will be Harman’s belief
Change in Belief, the logical account of belief change known as AGM, as well as
probabilistic theories of belief revision.Module Leader: Mark KalderonTerm: 2Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MAAn introduction to advanced
themes in the philosophy of perception through a comparison of vision,
audition, and touch. Recommended general
background reading:  Module Leader: Lucy O'BrienTerm: 1Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MAThis module is concerned to
explore the ways in which subjects are conscious of themselves. The first six
weeks will be concerned to consider and critically evaluate a number of
distinct approaches to the ways in which we come to know our own psychological
lives. The first three weeks (Section I) will focus on knowledge of belief, and
the next three weeks (Section II) will focus on knowledge of action. In both
subsections of the course a perceptual account of our knowledge of our beliefs
and actions will be contrasted with what we might called practical account of
self-knowledge. An inferential model as an alternative to both will also be
considered. In the last week of Section II (on Libet) students will be
presented with arguments from the neuroscience literature that aim to suggest
that actions are not in fact brought about by the decisions or intentions of
agents - but are automatically produced. The conclusiveness of these arguments
will be evaluated and more recent work in neuroscience suggesting hat Libet’s
original conclusions will be reviewed. The final section of the course (Section
III) will be concerned to explore the nature and significance of a different
kind of consciousness we have of ourselves, that is a consciousness mediated by
the consciousness of other people. Interpersonal self-consciousness is a
consciousness of ourselves as the object of consciousness of another. The
course will consider the nature of such consciousness and will argue that it
should be play an important role in our theory of the self-conscious emotions.
The emotion of shame will be a case study. The course will end by considering
the ways in which human beings can induce and escape such interpersonal
self-consciousness. Module Leader: Sarah Richmond
and John VorhausTerm: 3Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: nThe phrase “people with PMLD”
(ie. people with profound and multiple learning disabilities) is used to refer
to human beings whose cognitive impairments mean they are unable to engage in a
great many of the everyday activities undertaken by “normal” adults (see DSM
for how these limits are used as diagnostic criteria): eg. speaking, reading,
working, feeding and washing themselves etc. These people are usually also
physically impaired in various ways (for example, where cerebral palsy has
caused the condition, a person with PMLD might, in addition to their cognitive
disability, be blind, and/or unable to walk).These people confront moral
and political philosophers with a range of interesting and important questions,
which this research seminar (open to any research students) will examine.
First, the question of moral status: how do these people stand with respect to
the requirements for so-called ‘full moral standing’? Does that status extend
to all human beings, or only those with a certain level of mental capacity? We
will examine a range of views advanced by Jeff McMahan and Raimond Gaita (along
with Wittgensteinians such as Stephen Mulhall and Cora Diamond). How far can
the “social model” of disability be applied to disabilities (often congenital)
of this extreme kind? What special issues does dementia – which involves
cognitive decline from an earlier full functioning – present? Is it morally
acceptable to seek abortion on special grounds, if parents learn that the fetus
will suffer PMLD? Severe cognitive impairment means, for example, that these
people are unable to “agree” to any social contract, hypothetical or otherwise.
Where does that leave the various forms of contractualist political philosophy?
They are also unable to benefit from many of the capabilities listed by Sen and
Nussbaum as basic political entitlements for ordinary citizens.We plan to invite a number of
visiting speakers to some of the seminars, to talk about the work. See below
for a reading list which indicates at least some of the texts for the course
(Nb. the list is a rough guide, subject to revision). The seminar will take
place in the Summer term 2018 (times and venues are listed on the common
timetable); assessment will be by a submitted essay. Please email
s.richmond@ucl.ac.uk or j.vorhaus@ucl.ac.uk with any questions about this
seminar.• the online Stanford entry on “Cognitive Disability and
Moral Status” provides a useful overview of that part of the terrain. • the following anthologies contain many useful further
articles:(Eds) Brownlee and Cureton
(2009), Disability & Disadvantage (OUP: Oxford)(Eds) Kittay and Carlson
(2010), Cognitive Disability and Its Challenge to Philosophy (Wiley-Blackwell:
Oxford)(Eds) Francis and Silvers
(2000), Americans with Disabilities (Routledge: New York)We will also look at chs from
R. Gaita, A Common Humanity; M. Nussbaum, Frontiers of Justice; Jeff McMahan,
The Ethics of KillingModule Leader: Mark KalderonTerm: 1Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MAThis course is intended to
take students through key recent contributions within the Philosophy of
Perception or the Metaphysics of Sensibilia (such as colour or sound). This
year we shall be reading Mazvitta Chirimuuta’s Outside Color. All members of
the class are required to prepare the reading each week. One student each week
will be responsible for giving a short presentation on the work, and the class
as a whole will then discuss any issues raised.Module Leader: Joe Horton and Han van WietmarschenTerm: 2 & 3Area: n/aAssessment: PresentationShared: n/aThis module is designed to
familiarize the student with recent research in philosophy in a diverse range
of areas. Recent journal articles are discussed in a seminar led by student
presentations. Each student on the course will be required to make a
presentation at some point in the year. Also running in the third term.Module Leader: James WilsonTerm: 1Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: MAThis module examines some
central ethical ethical, economic and political problems facing health policy
in the UK and abroad, especially in relation to social justice. Topics covered
include: how to allocate healthcare resources (e.g. should the NHS cover all
new drug treatments, regardless of how expensive they are? Who should decide?);
the appropriate role of the state in protecting and promoting health (e.g.
should smoking be banned?); when inequalities in health and life expectancy are
unfair; and special challenges posed by infectious diseases.Module Leader: Luke
Fenton-GlynnTerm: 1Area: AAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MAIn this module, we will cover
three central topics in the metaphysics of science: causation, chance and the
laws of nature. Questions to be addressed include: What are laws of nature? Are
there laws other than those described by physics (for instance, are there laws
of biology or economics)? What is probability? Are there objective
probabilities (chances) in the world? How do chances relate to laws? What is
causation? How does causation relate to chance? No background in science or
probability theory is needed for this course. Recommended general
background reading: • Sample questions: • Are laws of nature mere
regularities? • Are the generalisations of
the special sciences (e.g. biology, chemistry, economics) genuine laws of
nature? • Are the special sciences
reducible to physics? • Is all probability
subjective, or are there objective probabilities in the world? • Can causation be understood
in terms of probabilistic relations between events? • Can structural equations
approaches to causation help us overcome the difficulties facing more
traditional philosophical accounts of causation? • Can the direction of
causation and the direction of time be reduced to the direction of entropy
increase? No background in science or
probability theory is needed for this course.Module Leader: Sebastian
GardnerTerm: 2Area: CAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MAThe course examines issues in
aesthetics and the philosophy of art in classical German philosophy. Topics
covered include: the concept of art's autonomy and its C18 origins; Kant's
account of judgements of taste and his theory of art; Schiller's aesthetic
solution to the problem of Freedom and Nature in his Letters on Aesthetic
Education; aesthetic absolutism in Schelling and the early German Romantics;
Hegel's system of art and thesis of the 'end' of art; theories of tragedy in classical
German philosophy; and the challenge posed by modern(ist) art, and Danto's
end-of-art theory. The two-hour class combines a lecture with discussion of the
set text, which students are expected to have read with care and prepared their
thoughts about beforehand. Module Leader: Amia SrinivasanTerm: 1Area: BAssessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MPhilDescription: This course will be an advanced introduction to the philosophical issues raised and addressed by the ongoing fight for women's liberation from patriarchal oppression. Topics include: the metaphysics of gender, intersectionality, feminism and trans issues, feminist epistemology, pornography, sex and sexual 'liberation', feminist critiques of liberalism and capitalism, and the relationship between feminism and philosophy. Module Leader: Véronique
Munoz-Dardé
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: MA

Description:  The course aims to provide graduate Philosophy
students with an understanding of some central themes, theories and arguments
in ethics, society and political philosophy. This year the topic will be Contractualism and its Critics.This seminar will be organized around contractualist approaches in contemporary political philosophy. The seminar will pursue three key themes. First, authority: Is the principal concern of political theory the authority of the state and the source of our obligations to obey state institutions and its agents? If not, what should our principal concerns in political philosophy be? Second, the weight of numbers: Aren’t aggregative concerns intuitively compelling in certain social policy contexts? Does that show that we must move beyond a pure individualistic perspective to one in which consequential outcomes are part of the measure of justice? Third, equality: Is equality or fairness a political value in itself? In what sense can a position claim to be egalitarian or guided by equality if it denies that equality has a special value?In pursuing these questions, we will consider writings by T. M. Scanlon, John Rawls, Joseph Raz and G. A. Cohen, as well as some historical texts from Jean-Jacques Rousseau and David Hume.Module Leader: Fiona LeighTerm: First year terms 1,2 and 3. Second year terms 1 and 2Area: CAssessment: 2 translations in seminar & submit written versions within 2 weeks 50%2,500 word essay on one of text read 50%Prerequisite: Knowledge of Ancient Greek Language. Shared: nThis course involves students
reading and engaging with ancient Greek philosophical texts, preparing
translations in advance, and presenting translations and leading discussion in
the seminars. The texts covered will generally be a dialogue of Plato’s or a
treatise of Aristotle’s (or a large part of one), although from time to time
texts from other ancient Greek thinkers will be selected, such as Epicurus
(perhaps together with other Epicureans) and the Stoics. The basis of selection
will be the philosophical significance of the material, so that the course will
represent and study the major works of these philosophers, such as for example
Plato’s Republic and Meno, and Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics and Prior
Analytics.Module Leader: Douglas
Lavin
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: MA

Description:  A graduate level study of some important recent
work in practical philosophy. For more information please email d.lavin@ucl.ac.ukModule Leader: Douglas
Lavin
Term: 1
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500Shared: BA \ MA

Description:  Investigation of a familiar and puzzling
elements of moral life, e.g., promising, forgiveness, authority, pride/shame,
pleasure, respect/humiliation, self-control, love and friendship,
competitiveness. Topics and texts may
differ year to year.  For more information please email d.lavin@ucl.ac.uk Module Leader: Ethan NowakTerm: 2Area: AAssessment: Essay 3000 words
(70%) and problem sets (30%)Shared: BA \ MAThis module introduces the
technical machinery of contemporary linguistic semantics, and explores the
philosophical foundations and applications of the same. The module begins with
an exploration of the significance of two ideas: a.) that knowing the truth
conditions associated with an assertoric sentence is knowing its meaning and
b.) that a theory of meaning for natural language must be compositional. The
rest of the module is devoted to the construction of a formal theory that
combines those ideas with the Fregean principle of type-driven interpretation
to explain the behavior of simple sentences, relative clauses, quantificational
constructions, demonstratives, and other philosophically-interesting expression
types. Significant familiarity with formal methods is presupposed. Students who
do not have experience with intermediate or advanced logic should consult the
instructor before registering for this module. Module Leader: Joe HortonTerm: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 wordsShared: MADescription: Is there any number of people you should save from paralysis rather than saving one person from death? Is there any number of people you should save from a headache rather than saving one person from death? Many people answer these questions ‘yes’ and ‘no’ respectively. In this course, we will consider whether this position can be defended, by evaluating recent work on aggregation in ethics. Module Leader: Joe Horton
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 words 
Shared: BA \ MA Description: Effective Altruism is a relatively new social movement, but it has already had a significant impact. Its primary aim is to encourage people to use evidence and careful reasoning to do the most good possible with their charitable donations. An important secondary aim is to encourage people to give more to the most effective charities. In this course, we will consider a variety of philosophical questions and controversies surrounding the Effective Altruism movement. These questions include:Should we be Effective Altruists?What justifies Effective Altruism? — Must Effective Altruists be Utilitarians or Consequentialists, or can they also be Non-Consequentialists?What charitable causes do the most good?Should we buy products made in sweatshops?Should we care about human suffering more than animal suffering?Which matters more: ending poverty or controlling artificial intelligence?Should we prioritise preventing the suffering of people who are alive now over preventing the suffering of future generations?Does the threat of future human extinction matter for us here and now? Module Leader: Robert Simpson 
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 words 
Shared: BA \ MA Description: In this module we will examine the various conceptions of ‘autonomy’ that have been appealed to by philosophers and legal theorists as part of a defense of free speech principles. We will also survey some influential conceptions of autonomy that have been espoused by moral philosophers. Our overarching aim will be to consider how successful an autonomy-based defense of free speech is, or could be, and what the most persuasive or promising form of such a defense might involve. Module Leader: Mat Simpson 
Term: 2
Area: B
Assessment: Essay 4500 words 
Shared: BA \ MA Description: Metaethics involves questions about the nature of value and of ethical thought and language. In this course students will learn about four prominent metaethical theories – naturalism, non-naturalism, constructivism, and expressivism. They will then study four recent debates which each have interesting connections with other areas of philosophy – the question of whether moral judgements motivate, the evolutionary debunking of morality, moral testimony and disagreement, and the problem of creeping minimalism.Text include:Geoffrey Sayre-McCord, ed. Essays on Moral Realism Cornell University Press 1988Copp, David, ed. The Oxford Handbook of Ethical Theory. Oxford University Press, 2007.LaFollette, Hugh, ed. The Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory. Oxford: Blackwell, 2000.Simon Blackburn, Ruling Passions (Oxford University Press 1998)Russ Shafer-Landu, ed. Oxford Studies in Metaethics (several volumes available, all contain relevant material.) Module Leader: Mat Simpson
Term: 1
Area: A
Assessment: Essay 4500 words 
Shared: BA \ MA Description: In this module we will investigate the relationship between the world and our representation of it by our language and thoughts. We will study a number of philosophical debates from the last century, which all center on the idea that our theories about human language and thought will in some way affect what we think about reality. Topics studied will include reference and non-existence objects, modality and causation, pragmatism about truth, non-representational theories of meaning and anti-metaphysical arguments. Text include:- Ian Hacking, 1975, Why Does Language Matter to Philosophy? (Cambridge University Press)- Amie Thomasson, 2015, Ontology Made Easy (Oxford University Press)- Steven Gross, Nicholas Tebbe and Michael Williams, eds., 2015, Meaning without Representation (Oxford University Press)- Huw Price, ed., 2013 Expressivism, Pragmatism and Representationalism, (Cambridge University Press)
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy.  The Keeling Centre are pleased to announce that in the Autumn of 2017, a supplementary lecture will be given by Professor Dorothea Frede (University of Hamburg, Humboldt University) and will be entitled 'Aristotle on the Importance of Laws, Rules and Institutions'. 19 October 20175pm-7pmLocation:Lecture Theatre D10325 Gordon St, UCL London WC1H 0AYDorothea Frede is Professor Emeritus at the University of Hamburg and Honorary Professor at the Humboldt University at Berlin. Since 2006 she has been the Mills Adjunct Professor of Philosophy at UC Berkeley. Prof Frede has published widely on a number of topics within Ancient Philosophy, with a particular focus on Aristotle, Plato and Hellenistic philosophy. She has also published on the work of Martin Heidegger.  In addition to the lecture, Professor Frede will be running a Graduate Masterclass on Wednesday 18th October for students of the University of London. For inquiries please contact Margaret Hampson (margaret.hampson.09@ucl.ac.uk).Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy.  The Keeling Centre are pleased to announce that in the Autumn of 2017, a supplementary lecture will be given by Professor Dorothea Frede (University of Hamburg, Humboldt University) and will be entitled 'Aristotle on the Importance of Laws, Rules and Institutions'. 19 October 20175pm-7pmLocation:Lecture Theatre D10325 Gordon St, UCL London WC1H 0AYDorothea Frede is Professor Emeritus at the University of Hamburg and Honorary Professor at the Humboldt University at Berlin. Since 2006 she has been the Mills Adjunct Professor of Philosophy at UC Berkeley. Prof Frede has published widely on a number of topics within Ancient Philosophy, with a particular focus on Aristotle, Plato and Hellenistic philosophy. She has also published on the work of Martin Heidegger.  In addition to the lecture, Professor Frede will be running a Graduate Masterclass on Wednesday 18th October for students of the University of London. For inquiries please contact Margaret Hampson (margaret.hampson.09@ucl.ac.uk).Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy.  The 2015-2016 lecture was given by Professor Susanne Bobzien (All Souls, Oxford) and was entitled 'Did Frege plagiarize the Stoics?'Prof. Bobzien also ran a Graduate Masterclass on Tuesday 15th March, attended by Graduate Students from UCL, KCL and Royal Holloway University. Susanne Bobzien is professor of philosophy and Senior Research Scholar at All Souls College, Oxford. Before joining Oxford, Professor Bobzien was at Yale University (2002 to 2013). Her research interest include ancient logic and ancient theories of determinism and freedom. She is author of Determinism and Freedom in Stoic Philosophy.Learn more>
     
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy. The lecture in 2014 was given by Prof. Gail Fine and was entitled 'Knowledge, Belief and Perception in the Phaedo'Held on: 12 March 20144pm-6pmHeld at:Gustave Tuck Lecture Theatre Wilkins Building, UCL Gower Street, London WC1E 6BTKnowledge and Belief in Republic 5 Professor Fine also ran a Masterclass for Graduate students entitled 'Knowledge and Belief in Republic 5.', held at the Department of Philosophy on 11 March 2014.Prof. Fine is visiting Professor of Ancient Philosophy at Merton College, Oxford. Her books include:Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy.  The 2014-2015 lecture was given by Professor David Sedley and was entitled 'Socrates' Second Voyage (Plato, Phaedo, 99-101)'Held: 13 May 20155pm-7pmWith a prior reception held in the JZ Young Lecture Theater FoyerAssociated with the lecture was a Masterclass for Graduate students led by Prof. Sedley on 12 May 2015. Prof. Sedley is Laurence Professor of Ancient Philosophy Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge. His books include: Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Most of the first ten lectures have been published in Modern Thinkers and Ancient Thinkers, edited by R. W. Sharples (London: UCL Press, 1993). Most of the second ten lectures have been published in Perspectives on Greek Philosophy, edited by R. W. Sharples (Aldershot: Ashgate, 2003). Below you will find a list of all previous Keeling lectures.Stephen Halliwell - 'To Banish
or Not to Banish? The Dilemma of Plato's Relationship to Poetry'  Dorothea Frede - 'Pleasure and
Pain in Aristotle’s Ethics'  
				UCL students in the main libraryAll major areas of philosophy are available for study at UCL, covering branches such as political thought, epistemology and metaphysics, and also drawing upon the writings of philosophers both ancient and modern to place your studies in context.
 

   Undergraduate

 

 

   Graduate (Taught)

 

 

   Graduate (Research)

 

 

   Why UCL Philosophy?

 

 

   Study Abroad at UCL

 

 

   Careers & Destinations

 

				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main libraryUCL Philosophy graduates often go on to undertake careers in law, computing, academia, public administration, publishing,
and writing or journalism. It is notable that many of our graduates work for
publicly funded bodies, and many others in relatively small organisations. Others have joined the police, started
their own business, or undertaken further study.Ricky Gervais  (Philosophy BA, 1983)Comedian, actor, director, producer, musician, writer, and former radio presenter. He received widespread success and critical acclaim with the TV series 'The Office' and has since gone one to appear in Hollywood movies including 'Cemetry Junction', 'Ghost Town' and 'The Invention of Lying'.Johnathan Dimbleby (Philosophy BA, 1969)Chair of BBC Radio 4's Any Questions? since 1987, Johnathan Dimbleby is also a past President of the Soil Association and CPRE. He is currently President of the VSO (since 1997) and chairman of Index on Censorship (since 2008). He is also a trustee of Dimbleby Cancer Care.Peter Cave (Philosophy BA, 1972)Author of a number of books including 'This Sentence is False', 'Can A Robot Be Human?', 'What's Wrong With Eating People?', 'Humanism: A Beginner's Guide', 'Do Llamas Fall in Love?' and 'Philosophy'. He has also appeared on BBC Radio 4.Ken Follett (Philosophy BA, 1970)Author Ken Follett has sold over 100 million copies of his books worldwide. Four of his works have reached the number one spot on the New York Times best-seller list - 'The Key to Rebecca', 'Lie Down with Lions', 'Triple' and 'World Without End'.Noreena Hertz (Philosophy & Economics BA, 1987)An economist, author and campaigner, Noreena Hertz has previously been listed as one of the Guardian's Top 101 Female Public Intellectuals. Her 2002 book 'The Silent Takeover' famously warned that unregulated markets, corporate greed, and over-powerful financial institutions would have serious global consequences.Shahrar Ali (PhD, 2004) Now working in green politics, Dr Shahrar Ali has formerly worked as a researcher in the European Parliament on the risks of GM food. He is an officer of London Green Party. His PhD focused on examining lying and deception, with specific reference to public life. 
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				
 

   How to apply

 

				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The doctoral programme at UCL provides students with the opportunity to conduct original research in philosophy in one of UK's top philosophy departments, under the supervision of prominent academics in the field. The PhD programme is designed to prepare students for an academic career, whether it be via the three-year (minimum) MPhil/PhD or the two-year (minimum) PhD following on from the MPhil Stud or equivalent, by ensuring that students receive grounding across a range of topics as well as producing a research thesis.September 2018
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        The usual prerequisite for the MPhil/PhD is a one-year research degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Direct admission to the PhD requires the MPhil Stud (or equivalent). All applicants for research degrees must submit two short pieces of work, of about 2,000 words each, with their application.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: GoodFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            The MPhil/PhD in Philosophy at UCL is a three year (minimum) research programme. It requires students to take graduate courses assessed by way of several papers in their first year, and, provided successful upgrade to the PhD, to produce a thesis of original research under the guidance of their supervisor(s). The PhD degree is awarded on the basis of a thesis of approximately 75,000 (not more than 80,000) words. The candidate is also given a viva voce examination. 
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        MPhil/PhD and PhD candidates will be considered for AHRC funding through the LAHP (London Arts & Humanities Partnership), whose members are UCL, King's College London, and the School of Advanced Study at the University of London. Other scholarships and sources of funding may be available; please check the UCL Scholarships and Funding website. You should take note of funding application deadlines as these can differ from programme application deadlines.The department has a set of funds to offer awards to research students which are allocated on the basis of merit and need. These include the Follett Scholarship (1-year award of £13,000); the Jacobsen Scholarship (1-year award of £9,000) and one or two S V Keeling Scholarships in ancient philosophy (covering UK/EU fees and maintenance matching AHRC funding). Some smaller department awards are also listed below.For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website.
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        Recent graduates with a PhD in philosophy from UCL have gained prestigious academic fellowships as well as postdoctoral placements in the UK and elsewhere in Europe (for example at the University of Oxford, the University of London, University of Cambridge, Sheffield University, University of Antwerp, and the Institute of Philosophy, UNAM, Mexico). Others have gone on to lectureships in the UK (for example at the University of Oxford, University of York, LSE) and overseas at the University of Cape Town and the University of Melbourne. 

Those who have not pursued an academic career have entered a variety of professions, including law, public policy, and publishing.The department has an outstanding job placement record in a highly competitive academic market. The most successful candidates in this market are valued for their range of teaching competence, provided for by the taught elements of the MPhil/PhD programme, as well as for their particular area of specialisation, determined by the research topic of the doctoral thesis.

During the course of the programme, students receive training in presentational skills, interview practice and teaching methods, and are encouraged to present their research at the department's Work in Progress seminars, and at graduate and academic conferences in the UK and overseas.The department has links with US universities (Berkeley, Columbia and Yale). Academic staff are involved in the running of the Aristotelian Society, the main philosophy society in the UK. Others are involved in running the Institute of Classical Studies lecture series, and the Keeling Colloquia and Lectures in ancient philosophy. Philosophy graduate students host a philosophy conference at the start of every year, and co-organise an annual graduate philosophy conference with graduate students at Berkeley. Finally, the Royal Institute of Philosophy lecture series, co-ordinated by the Institute of Philosophy at Senate House, is open to our graduate students.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MPhil/PhD and PhD start date is September each year. For 2017 entry, applications open in October 2016, and are due by January 3 2017. Please attach two samples of your written work (2000 words each). For more information see our How to apply page.For more information see our Applications page. The normal route to PhD study in the department is by way of undertaking the two-year MPhil Stud initially. Students who have completed the MPhil Stud (or an equivalent) will have gained sufficient depth and breadth of knowledge to progress to the two-year (minimum) PhD. There is a provision for those who have sufficient graduate training in Philosophy to be admitted to the three-year MPhil/ PhD programme. If an offer is made the graduate committee who review applications will make this at the appropriate entry level (MPhil Stud, MPhil/PhD or PhD) depending on your previous studies. It is therefore important to include as full transcripts as possible so an appropriate offer is made.There is a list of department scholarships of the UCL funding pages.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The MPhil Stud in Philosophy at UCL is one of the pre-eminent research Master's in philosophy in the UK. Over a period of two years students complete coursework across a specified range of areas, and produce a substantial research thesis. Students who have completed the MPhil Stud will have gained sufficient depth and breadth of knowledge to progress to the PhD. September 2018
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        A first-class UK Bachelor's degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. All applicants for research degrees must submit two short pieces of work, of about 2,000 words each, with their application.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: GoodFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            In their first year, students take the following three  compulsory courses (worth 15 credits each):A three-term 
fortnightly  seminar for all research students, run by two members of 
staff. This seminar  focuses on the recent philosophical literature. 
Students give presentations and  it is expected that each MPhil Stud 
student will give a senior seminar  presentation during their two years 
on the course.Close reading of a classic  philosophical text, for first year MPhil Stud students only (Term 1). Close reading of a classic  philosophical text, for first year MPhil Stud students only (Term 2).In addition, students must take seven optional 
courses (worth 15 credits each), usually distributed as follows:These courses  can either be MPhil Stud  courses covering some region of philosophy in
 depth, or Research Seminars in  which faculty members present their 
latest research.In the third term,  students work on their 
dissertation with their supervisor.
In their second year, students must take the following two compulsory courses:A three-term 
fortnightly  seminar for all research students focusing on recent philosophical literature and run by two members of 
staff.Students give presentations and  it is expected that each MPhil Stud 
student will give a senior seminar  presentation during their two years 
on the course. (15 credits)A weekly seminar in which students  present work in progress from their theses (30 credits). In addition, students must take three optional courses in 
Term 1 (worth 15 credits each). In their second term, students receive 
individual 
 supervision on their thesis project, and the third term is spent 
entirely  working on the thesis.Students must take SEVEN optional courses in their first  year, and 
THREE in their second year.Students’ choices among optional courses  
are constrained as follows: The A, B and C lists correspond to a rough division of philosophical 
topics into:  The department has a set of funds to offer awards to research 
students which are allocated on the basis of merit and need. These 
include the Follett Scholarship, a one-year award of £13,000; the S V 
Keeling Scholarship, a three-year scholarship to support research in 
philosophy, principally in ancient philosophy, worth £7,500 per year; 
Ayer, Dawes Hicks, Jacobsen, Melhuish, J S Mill Scholarships, each worth
 £500–£1,000. For a comprehensive list of the funding 
opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your 
nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website.Recent graduates have gained prestigious 
fellowships as well as postdoctoral placements in the UK and elsewhere 
in Europe. Others have gone on to lectureships in the UK.The breadth and quantity of 
pre-doctoral graduate-level modules required by the UCL MPhil Stud 
programme is unmatched by any other UK Philosophy department, ensuring 
that our research students enter specialist doctoral work with a deep 
general understanding of the discipline.
The department has an outstanding job placement record in a highly 
competitive market that values a range of areas of teaching competence 
in addition to an area of specialisation. Students also receive training
 in transferable presentational skills, interview practice and teaching 
methods.The department has links with US 
universities (Berkeley, Columbia and Yale). Academic staff are involved 
in the running of the Aristotelian Society, which is the main philosophy
 society in the UK.The course is designed to give students both breadth and depth of study in the field at an advanced level, as well as the opportunity to develop independent research ideas in a sustained piece of original work.Over the intensive two year programme, students taking the MPhil. Stud. complete 16 term length modules, 10 for credit assessed by way of a paper, and in addition, a 30,000 research thesis. The course is structured so that students take the majority of the assessed courses in the first year (typically 8-9), leaving them largely free to focus on their research in the second year. A certain amount of breadth is required of the courses taken for credit, so that although students are able to specialise to some extent in their area of research, they will write papers of significant length (4500 words) across several subject areas. Work on the thesis is begun in the summer of the first year and completed by September of the following year.  UCL Philosophy admits graduate 
students to work for the degrees of MA, MPhil Stud, MPhil/PhD, and PhD. The MPhil Stud programme has been conceived as preparation 
for a career in teaching philosophy and it provides a broader background
 
and training in philosophy, before proceeding to the PhD.  The deadline for applications to the MPhil Stud MPhil/PhD and PhD is 3 January 2017.  All applicants for research degrees (MPhil
 Stud, MPhil/PhD or PhD) should submit two short pieces of work; c. 
2,000 words each, with their application. When using the online 
admissions system there are various points where you are able to and/or 
required to upload certain documents. Please note that you are only able
 to upload documents less than 2 MB in size and in the file formats 
.doc, .docx, .jpg or .pdf. More information about uploads is available here.  You can upload the writing samples instead of one of the 
other documents requested (e.g. CV, English language certificate or 
Transcript).  More guidance on the writing samples can be found in here. MPhil Stud: a first-class UK Bachelor’s degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.  MPhil/PhD: a one-year research degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.Exceptions may be made in the case of candidates
 with strong upper second class Honours degrees, or equivalent 
qualifications, supported by good references.In exceptional circumstances, applicants for research degrees 
who will have completed  sufficient graduate training in philosophy by 
the time they enrol will be considered for admission as MPhil/PhD 
students. Decisions concerning eligibility for entry at this point in 
the programme will be made by the admissions tutor when reviewing 
application materials. The preferred route to studying for a PhD in the 
department is by taking the two year MPhil Stud degree first. When applying online for the MPhil Stud online the course code 
RMPPHISING09 in the Research Subject Area / Taught Programme Title 
section. The number of new research students registering 
each year about 10. Overall there are roughly 50 research students in 
the department.  The department warmly welcomes graduate students 
who are working towards higher degrees at other universities and who 
would wish to do either course work or research in London for a period 
normally of one year. Arrangements can be made for the award of grades 
or other credits that may be required by the degree-giving university. Postdoctoral students may also be admitted for short periods, and the 
experience of the department is that such arrangements are highly 
beneficial. Finally, the department accept students who (for financial 
reasons etc.) wish to enrol on a part-time basis; and this lengthens 
their period of study. There is a list of department scholarships of the UCL funding pages.
				   
   How to apply

 

				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The Philosophy MA enables students to benefit from the acknowledged expertise of UCL's lively, close-knit intellectual community, and also access the stimulation and dynamism of London's wider philosophical community. The programme offers the flexibility for recent graduates in the subject to study chosen topics in greater depth.September 2018
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        Philosophy (BA) graduates who intend to progress to PhD study are advised to apply for the two year Master of Philosophical Studies (MPhil Stud). September 2018
                                Note on fees:
                                The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                                
                            A minimum of a upper second-class Bachelor's degree in philosophy from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Applicants with a strong degree in a non-philosophical subject are welcome.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: GoodFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018The programme allows students to develop an advanced knowledge of problems in contemporary analytic philosophy, the history of philosophy and the study of value. It provides students with an understanding of a representative range of central philosophical debates and of the nature of philosophical problems, and encourages them to develop and defend their own viewpoint.Students undertake modules to the value of 180 credits.The programme consists of two core modules (30 credits), six optional modules (90 credits) and a research dissertation (60 credits).These modules introduce students to graduate study in philosophy. Students will give short presentations on central topics and classic papers which form the basis of discussion.Options may include the following: All students undertake an independent research project in any area of philosophy taught and approved by the department, leading to in a dissertation of 12,000 words.The programme is taught through a combination of seminars, lectures, and supervisions. Students' performance is assessed through examinations, presentations, coursework, and the dissertation.
                                        Further information on modules and degree structure is available on the department website: 
                                        Philosophy MA
                                    
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Graduates of this programme have become successful lawyers, journalists, theatre directors and novelists among other careers. Those who perform sufficiently well on the MA can expect to pursue further research in philosophy in London or elsewhere.The programme equips graduates with the skills to analyse complex ideas, develop independence of judgement and originality of thought, evaluate arguments rigorously, present views lucidly both orally and on paper, and question orthodox views. The programme provides an ideal basis for future academic study and many graduates proceed to research degrees in the UK and abroad.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018The department has strengths in philosophy of mind, language, political and moral philosophy, metaphysics, epistemology and the history of philosophy.Our students benefit significantly from our location in London, which is one of the international centres of philosophical activity. London is home of a number of renowned journals (Philosophy; Mind & Language; Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society) and hosts regular visiting speakers from across the world. Over 60 philosophers are active in London making it one of the largest and most varied philosophical communities in the world.
                                            Department: Philosophy
                                        
                                            Student / staff ratios
                                            
                                                › 22 staff
                                                
                                                    including 2 postdocs
                                                
                                            
                                            
                                                › 22 taught students
                                            
                                            
                                                › 61 research students
                                            
                                        The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.
                                                The following REF score was awarded to the department: Philosophy
                                                75% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)
                                            Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MA offers a means to study philosophy for an additional year after completing an undergraduate degree and also provides a good basis for work outside of universities. Philosophy graduates who wish to develop a career in teaching philosophy are advised to apply directly for the MPhil Stud.Applications close on 1 February each year and early submission is recommended.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme offers.
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Prof. Sebasatian Gardner – Professor of Philosophy “UCL provides a superb context for pursuing postgraduate
study in Philosophy. The Department is ranked among the best in the country for
its research and attaches the highest importance to its teaching. MA students
have the opportunity to engage intensively with a wide variety of areas in and
approaches to philosophy and its history, receive full support and
encouragement, and achieve striking results. After completing the MA many
proceed to research degrees.”

				    
				UCL students in the main library "The programme is unique in training its students
rigorously but with a personal touch. The class is small and this allows for
one to receive adequate attention from faculty members and interact with all of
one's peers. I found the compulsory practical criticism class especially useful
for honing my skills in reading closely and critically. The tutorial system
allows for great flexibility in pursuing one's interests in depth and also
acquiring a broad education in philosophy. Studying philosophy at UCL combines
the advantages of being in an intimate college atmosphere and being in a large
research environment, since there are several other excellent philosophy
departments in London and a thriving philosophy scene."  "For me, UCL was a place that you looked forward to going
to each day. You looked forward to the seminars, the supervisions,
the reading groups and the evenings in the pub, because they were fun, because
the people were interesting and unpretentious, and because you learned
something from them. London is a terrific place to philosophise: there
are so many excellent people working or visiting there at any time, and so
much going on, formally and informally, that even if one never read a single
thing, one would have a sense of immunity from ignorance of the latest ideas." 
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main library  "Having shopped around a little I chose to apply for the philosophy MA at
UCL. It seemed a good option: a one year commitment at a top-rated philosophy
department (not to mention the MA's inter-collegiate nature, giving access to
philosophers throughout London), and a chance to try out a fairly wide range of
subjects. The year went well and I was able to work closely in tutorials with a
number of the UCL philosophers. I'm now a little clearer, having dabbled in a
number of subjects in the course of the MA, as to which areas I now want to
focus on. I'm starting the MPhil Stud at UCL this coming year, and looking
forward to it immensely."
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main library




 "I chose to come to UCL primarily because of the strength of the department.
As one of the leading centres in the philosophy of perception, it was an
obvious choice. Intellectually, my time at UCL was as stimulating and
challenging as I had hoped it would be and immensely
enjoyable. The department is down-to-earth, friendly, and very sociable. My time there was an incredibly rewarding experience."
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main libraryThe Philosophy department regularly welcomes study abroad students and we pride ourselves on our supportive learning environment. We offer a range of courses across political and moral philosophy, epistemology, metaphysics and much more. Our courses equip students with the tools and skills needed to challenge, analyse and present complex ideas and problems, whether this be the distinction between right and wrong, questions of the state, liberty and law, or ethics, logic and the nature of knowledge and belief.As part of the Philosophy department, you'll have access
     to meetings and events at the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the
     Aristotelian Society and the University of London’s Institute of
     Philosophy.UCL's history, reputation and academic standing makes it a top destination for study abroad in the UK. Come and study alongside regular UCL and international students and benefit from our world-class teaching system and renowned academics. If you are looking to study in the Philosophy department as an
Erasmus student, you will need to check an Erasmus agreement is in place with
your institution and apply via this route. We look forward to welcoming you at UCL Philosophy! You can contact the department at: philosophy@ucl.ac.uk. 
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				
 

   How to apply

 

				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Dr. Luke Fenton-Glynn – Lecturer in
Philosophy “UCL Philosophy is a wonderful
department. It is regularly ranked among the best in the country on the basis
of both research and teaching. The department is both friendly and
intellectually vibrant, with frequent interactions between staff, graduate, and
undergraduate students. Our students are highly intelligent and ambitious, and
share a common passion for their subject. All this combined with the rich
intellectual life of UCL and the enormous strength, breadth, and depth of the
London philosophical community means that is a privilege to work here.”
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				This programme aims to provide an understanding of a range of central philosophical debates. All major areas of philosophy are available for study, covering branches such as moral and political philosophy, metaphysics and epistemology, and drawing upon the writings of philosophers both ancient and modern to contextualise your studies.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 23 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,D3 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal SubjectsA,A,A at Advanced Highers (or A,A at Advanced Higher and A,A,A at Higher) Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAA. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Philosophy was one of the top-rated departments in the UK in the most recent (2014) Research Excellence Framework. The research interests of the academic staff are wide-ranging, covering all the main areas of philosophy.We regard philosophy as a co-operative endeavour. We ensure personal support in your learning, and the department deservedly has a reputation for excellent relations between staff and students.A rich array of extracurricular philosophy events is available in London. As a UCL philosophy student you will be able to attend the meetings of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the Aristotelian Society and the University of London's Institute of Philosophy.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Philosophy.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).The first year begins with several introductory lecture courses, providing a foundation for later studies. The programme covers political philosophy, examining questions about the state, liberty and laws; moral philosophy, questioning distinctions of right and wrong, and our motivation for choosing between the two; epistemology which investigates the nature of knowledge and belief; metaphysics, which attempts to grasp the nature of things; and logic, which imparts principles of sound reasoning.Your second and third years will be spent studying a range of subjects from metaphysics and epistemology and the philosophies of mind and language, to moral and political philosophy, aesthetics and phenomenology, and the history of philosophy.The programme is designed to ensure that the central areas of the subject are covered, while also allowing you to choose from an array of optional modules, some of which may be taken from other departments at UCL.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Introduction to the History of Philosophy IIntroduction to the History of Philosophy IIIntroduction to Logic IIntroduction to Logic IIIntroduction to Moral PhilosophyIntroduction to Political PhilosophyKnowledge and RealityPhilosophical Study Skills: Reading, Understanding and Essay Writing
                                                                All first year modules are compulsory.
                                                                All second year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 4.0 credits of optional modules, including at least one module from each of Groups A, B, and C: Group ATheoretical Philosophy (e.g. Knowledge; Metaphysics; Mind and Body; Language) Group BNormative Philosophy (e.g. Aesthetics; Applied Ethics; Global Justice and Health; Morality and Literature; Normative Ethics; Political Philosophy) Group CHistory of Philosophy (e.g. Aristotle; Plato; Marxism; Nietzsche; Wittgenstein; Sartre)
                                                                All third year modules are optional.
                                                                You will choose eight from the wide range of optional modules available to the value of 4.0 credits. You can take a total of 2.0 credits from other departments at UCL.You must pass at least six level 3* (advanced) modules - one of which may be taken in year two - and have passed one module from each of Groups A, B, and C (above) to graduate.Our teaching is based on lectures and seminars that complement each other. In your first year, you will be introduced to the basic elements of philosophical reasoning through lectures, seminars and small-group tutorial classes. In years two and three your chosen modules will be taught by an expert from within our department through a combination of lectures, related seminars and classes.Assessment is by a mixture of coursework (essays) and written examination. You may also elect to submit a dissertation as one of your optional modules.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Philosophy BA.This programme will assist you in constructing and assessing philosophical positions and arguments, thereby teaching you how to analyse and present complex ideas. Furthermore, it will provide you with an understanding of a wide range of traditional and contemporary philosophical theories. Such skills are transferable to non-philosophical contexts.The discipline of philosophical training, and in particular its emphasis on rigorous argumentation, logic, and clarity of thought and expression, makes philosophy graduates highly suitable for a wide variety of careers.Many recent UCL graduates have excelled in the legal profession, training as both solicitors and barristers, while others have entered publishing, journalism, finance, the civil service, Parliament, or local government. Philosophy graduates are also sought after as programmers and systems analysts. A high proportion of students go on to further study in philosophy.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Details about financial support are available at: www.ucl.ac.uk/study/ug-financeThe Scholarships and Funding website has a comprehensive list of scholarships and funding schemes available for UCL students. These can be available for specific nationalities, regions, departments or open to all students. In addition to looking for outstanding grades in your academic record, we also assess your application for evidence of your ability to engage with philosophical arguments and your skills in reasoning.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    Selection will be made on the basis of information contained in the UCAS application: achieved and predicted academic grades, the level of interest in, motivation towards, and experience of the subject as indicated in the personal statement, the reference supplied, and any relevant contextual factors.In addition applicants may be asked from time to time to provide further information, such as AS module results, or a response to a questionnaire.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				This three-year programme aims to provide an understanding of a range of central philosophical debates, together with a detailed education in economics. All major areas of philosophy are available for study, and the programme is run jointly with the highly regarded UCL Economics, where half your modules are taken.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D2,D3,D3 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. Mathematics required at D2A1,A,A at Advanced Highers (or A1,A at Advanced Higher and A,A,A at Higher). Mathematics A1 required at Advanced Higher.Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades A*AA, including Mathematics. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Philosophy was one of the top-rated departments in the UK in the most recent (2014) Research Excellence Framework. The research interests of the academic staff are wide-ranging, covering all the main areas of philosophy.You will learn economics in one of Europe's leading centres for research. In the UK government's most recent (2014) Research Excellence Framework, UCL Economics was ranked top in the UK.A rich array of extracurricular philosophy events is available in London. As a UCL philosophy student you will be able to attend the meetings of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the Aristotelian Society and the University of London's Institute of Philosophy.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Philosophy.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).The first year includes several introductory lecture courses, which provide a foundation for later studies. The programme covers political philosophy, examining questions about the state, liberty and laws; moral philosophy, questioning distinctions of right and wrong, and our motivation for choosing between the two; epistemology which investigates the nature of knowledge and belief; metaphysics, which attempts to grasp the nature of things; and logic, which imparts principles of sound reasoning.You will study Philosophy and Economics on a roughly equal basis.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Economics (1.0 credits)Introduction to Mathematics for Economics (0.5 credits)
                                                                Four Philosophy modules from the following: History of Philosophy IHistory of Philosophy IIKnowledge and RealityIntroduction to Logic IIntroduction to Logic IIIntroduction to Moral PhilosophyIntroduction to Political PhilosophyPhilosophy Tutorial: Texts and DebateYou will also take one optional module from Economics.
                                                                Macroeconomics (1.0 credits)Macroeconomic Theory and Policy (1.0 credits)
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits of optional modules from Philosophy, including modules from at least two of the groups A, B, and C:
Group ATheoretical Philosophy (e.g. Knowledge; Metaphysics; Mind and Body; Language)
Group BNormative Philosophy (e.g. Aesthetics; Applied Ethics; Global Justice and Health; Morality and Literature; Normative Ethics; Political Philosophy)
Group CHistory of Philosophy (e.g. Aristotle; Plato; Marxism; Nietzsche; Wittgenstein; Sartre)
                                                                All third year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 4.0 credits of optional modules, including:2.0 credits from a wide range of economics optional modules2.0 credits from the wide range of philosophy optional modules.Our teaching is based on lectures and seminars that complement each other. In your first year, you will be introduced to the basic elements of philosophical reasoning through lectures, seminars and small-group tutorial classes. In years two and three your chosen courses will be taught by an expert from within our department through a combination of lectures, related seminars and classes.Assessment is by a mixture of coursework (essays) and written examination. You may also elect to submit a dissertation as one of your Philosophy optional modules.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Philosophy and Economics BA.This programme will assist you in constructing and assessing philosophical positions and arguments, thereby teaching you how to analyse and present complex ideas. Furthermore, it will provide you with an understanding of a wide range of traditional and contemporary philosophical theories. Such skills are transferable to non-philosophical contexts.The discipline of philosophical training, and in particular its emphasis on rigorous argumentation, logic, and clarity of thought and expression, makes philosophy graduates highly suitable for a wide variety of careers.Many recent UCL graduates have excelled in the legal profession, training as both solicitors and barristers, while others have entered publishing, journalism, finance, the civil service, Parliament, or local government. Philosophy graduates are also sought after as programmers and systems analysts. A high proportion of students go on to further study in philosophy.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Details about financial support are available at: www.ucl.ac.uk/study/ug-financeThe Scholarships and Funding website has a comprehensive list of scholarships and funding schemes available for UCL students. These can be available for specific nationalities, regions, departments or open to all students.In addition to looking for outstanding grades in your academic record as a whole, and in mathematics in particular, we also assess your application for evidence of your ability to engage with philosophical arguments and your skills in reasoning.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    Selection will be made on the basis of information contained in the UCAS application: achieved and predicted academic grades, the level of interest in, motivation towards, and experience of the subject as indicated in the personal statement, the reference supplied, and any relevant contextual factors.In addition applicants may be asked from time to time to provide further information, such as AS module results, or a response to a questionnaire.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				This degree aims to provide an understanding of a range of central philosophical debates, together with a detailed education in Ancient Greek language and culture. All major areas of philosophy are available for study, drawing upon the writings of philosophers both ancient and modern to place your studies in context.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 23 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,D3 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal SubjectsA,A,A at Advanced Highers (or A,A at Advanced Higher and A,A,A at Higher) Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAA. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Philosophy was one of the top-rated departments in the UK in the most recent (2014) Research Excellence Framework. The research interests of the academic staff are wide-ranging, covering all the main areas of philosophy.You will study Greek in one of the top five Classics departments in the UK, according to the 2017 Guardian University Guide.A rich array of extracurricular philosophy events is available in London. As a UCL philosophy student you will be able to attend the meetings of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the Aristotelian Society and the University of London's Institute of Philosophy.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Philosophy.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).The first year includes several introductory lecture courses, which provide a foundation for later studies. The programme covers political philosophy, examining questions about the state, liberty and laws; moral philosophy, questioning distinctions of right and wrong, and our motivation for choosing between the two; epistemology which investigates the nature of knowledge and belief; metaphysics, which attempts to grasp the nature of things; and logic, which imparts principles of sound reasoning.You will study Philosophy and Greek on an equal basis. Optional modules in Latin are also offered.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                All first year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 4.0 credits of optional modules, including: 2.0 credits of Greek & Latin modulesFour Philosophy modules from the following:Introduction to the History of Philosophy IIntroduction to the History of Philosophy IIIntroduction to Logic IIntroduction to Logic IIIntroduction to Moral PhilosophyIntroduction to Political PhilosophyKnowledge and Reality Philosophy Tutoria: Texts and Debate
                                                                All second year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 4.0 credits of optional modules, including:2.0 credits of Greek & Latin modulesFour optional modules from Philosophy, including modules from at least two of the groups A, B, and C: Group ATheoretical Philosophy (e.g. Knowledge; Metaphysics; Mind and Body; Language) Group BNormative Philosophy (e.g. Aesthetics; Applied Ethics; Global Justice and Health; Morality and Literature; Normative Ethics; Political Philosophy) Group CHistory of Philosophy (Aristotle; Plato; Marxism; Nietzsche; Wittgenstein; Sartre)
                                                                All third year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 4.0 credits of optional modules, including:2.0 credits of Greek & Latin modules2.0 credits from the wide range of Philosophy modules available.Our teaching is based on lectures and seminars that complement each other. In your first year, you will be introduced to the basic elements of philosophical reasoning through lectures, seminars and small-group tutorial classes. In years two and three your chosen modules will be taught by an expert from within our department through a combination of lectures, related seminars and classes.Assessment is by a mixture of coursework (essays) and written examination. You may also elect to submit a dissertation as one of your Philosophy optional modules.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Philosophy and Greek BA.This programme will assist you in constructing and assessing philosophical positions and arguments, thereby teaching you how to analyse and present complex ideas. Furthermore, it will provide you with an understanding of a wide range of traditional and contemporary philosophical theories. Such skills are transferable to non-philosophical contexts.The discipline of philosophical training, and in particular its emphasis on rigorous argumentation, logic, and clarity of thought and expression, makes philosophy graduates highly suitable for a wide variety of careers.Many recent UCL graduates have excelled in the legal profession, training as both solicitors and barristers, while others have entered publishing, journalism, finance, the civil service, Parliament, or local government. Philosophy graduates are also sought after as programmers and systems analysts. A high proportion of students go on to further study in philosophy.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Details about financial support are available at: www.ucl.ac.uk/study/ug-financeThe Scholarships and Funding website has a comprehensive list of scholarships and funding schemes available for UCL students. These can be available for specific nationalities, regions, departments or open to all students.In addition to looking for outstanding grades in your academic record, we also assess your application for evidence of your ability to engage with philosophical arguments, your skills in reasoning, and your facility with languages and linguistics.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    Selection will be made on the basis of information contained in the UCAS application: achieved and predicted academic grades, the level of interest in, motivation towards, and experience of the subject as indicated in the personal statement, the reference supplied, and any relevant contextual factors.In addition applicants may be asked from time to time to provide further information, such as AS module results, or a response to a questionnaire.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				This degree aims to provide you with an understanding of a range of central philosophical debates together with a detailed education in history of art. All major areas of philosophy are available for study. You will also address issues about the very nature of art and human perception of visual culture.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 23 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,D3 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal SubjectsA,A,A at Advanced Highers (or A,A at Advanced Higher and A,A,A at Higher) Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAA. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Philosophy was one of the top-rated departments in the UK in the most recent (2014) Research Excellence Framework. The research interests of the academic staff are wide-ranging, covering all the main areas of philosophy.UCL History of Art academic staff include specialists on all periods from the early Renaissance onwards, with particular strength in the study of contemporary art and two experts in the technical analysis of paintings.A rich array of extracurricular philosophy events is available in London. As a UCL philosophy student you will be able to attend the meetings of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the Aristotelian Society and the University of London's Institute of Philosophy.UCL's central location in London is within walking distance of the British Museum and provides easy access to the National Gallery, the Tate Galleries and the Victoria and Albert Museum.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Philosophy.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).The first year includes several introductory lecture courses, which provide a foundation for later studies. The programme covers political philosophy, examining questions about the state, liberty and laws; moral philosophy, questioning distinctions of right and wrong, and our motivation for choosing between the two; epistemology which investigates the nature of knowledge and belief; metaphysics, which attempts to grasp the nature of things; and logic, which imparts principles of sound reasoning.You will study Philosophy and History of Art on an equal basis.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                History of Art and its ObjectsHistory of European Art (1): Classical to Early RenaissanceHistory of European Art (2): High Renaissance to Present Day
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits from the following:Introduction to the History of Philosophy IIntroduction to the History of Philosophy IIIntroduction to Logic IIntroduction to Logic IIIntroduction to Moral PhilosophyIntroduction to Political PhilosophyKnowledge and RealityPhilosophy Tutorial: Texts and Debate
                                                                Gateway I (History of Art)Gateway II (History of Art)
                                                                You will select 1.0 credit from a selection of optional History of Art modules and four optional modules from Philosophy, including modules from at least two of the groups A, B, and C: Group ATheoretical Philosophy (e.g. Knowledge; Metaphysics; Mind and Body; Language)Group BNormative Philosophy (e.g. Aesthetics; Applied Ethics; Global Justice and Health; Morality and Literature; Normative Ethics; Political Philosophy) Group CHistory of Philosophy (e.g. Aristotle; Plato; Marxism; Nietzsche; Wittgenstein; Sartre)
                                                                All third-year modules are optional.
                                                                You will choose four History of Art optional modules (to the value of 2.0 credits) from the wide range available. You will also select four Philosophy modules (to the value of 2.0 credits) in year two. A maximum of 1.0 credit may be taken in other UCL departments in years two and three.Our teaching is based on lectures and seminars that complement each other. In your first year, you will be introduced to the basic elements of philosophical reasoning through lectures, seminars and small-group tutorial classes. In years two and three your chosen modules will be taught by departmental experts through a combination of lectures, related seminars and classes.Assessment is by a mixture of coursework (essays) and written examination. You may also elect to submit a dissertation as one of your Philosophy optional modules.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Philosophy and History of Art BA.This programme will assist you in constructing and assessing philosophical positions and arguments, thereby teaching you how to analyse and present complex ideas. Furthermore, it will provide you with an understanding of a wide range of traditional and contemporary philosophical theories. Such skills are transferable to non-philosophical contexts.The discipline of philosophical training, and in particular its emphasis on rigorous argumentation, logic, and clarity of thought and expression, makes philosophy graduates highly suitable for a wide variety of careers.Many recent UCL graduates have excelled in the legal profession, training as both solicitors and barristers, while others have entered publishing, journalism, finance, the civil service, Parliament, or local government. Philosophy graduates are also sought after as programmers and systems analysts. A high proportion of students go on to further study in philosophy.First career destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) of this programme include:Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.Details about financial support are available at: www.ucl.ac.uk/study/ug-financeThe Scholarships and Funding website has a comprehensive list of scholarships and funding schemes available for UCL students. These can be available for specific nationalities, regions, departments or open to all students. In addition to looking for outstanding grades in your academic record, we also assess your application for evidence of your ability to engage with philosophical arguments, your skills in reasoning and your interest in history of art.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    Selection will be made on the basis of information contained in the UCAS application: achieved and predicted academic grades, the level of interest in, motivation towards, and experience of the subject as indicated in the personal statement, the reference supplied, and any relevant contextual factors.In addition applicants may be asked from time to time to provide further information, such as AS module results, or a response to a questionnaire.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main libraryPhilosophy was from the very foundation of UCL always intended 
to play a large and important part in the curriculum. This was in 
keeping with the idea of philosophy as a means of liberal education held
 by such members of the original council as James Mill, Henry Brougham 
and George Grote. In the first statement, issued in 1827, concerning the
 nature and objectives of the college's foundation, it states: The department has notable strengths in: Compare UCL's Philosophy programmes with others:Fees and funding guidance videos:Value: Up to £3,500Value: Up to £800Value: Up to £5,000Value: Up to £250Value: Up to £13,000Value: Up to £9,500Value: UK/EU tuition fees plus a bursaryValue: Up to £1,400Value: Up to £3,700n/aNo separate application is required for the above scholarships. All who are admitted to research programmes in Philosophy will be invited to apply, and decisions regarding these awards will be made in September. Queries should be directed to: Dr. Fiona Leigh: fiona.leigh@ucl.ac.ukTelephone +44 (0)20 7679 3074Page last modified on 16 may 16 11:28
			by Shanaz Begum
			*NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Page Support l Request printed information l DisclaimerPage maintained by Student Funding, UCL Registry© UCL 1999–2017Fees and funding guidance videos:Value: Up to £3,500Value: Up to £800Value: Up to £5,000Value: Up to £250Value: Up to £13,000Value: Up to £9,500Value: UK/EU tuition fees plus a bursaryValue: Up to £1,400Value: Up to £3,700n/aNo separate application is required for the above scholarships. All who are admitted to research programmes in Philosophy will be invited to apply, and decisions regarding these awards will be made in September. Queries should be directed to: Dr. Fiona Leigh: fiona.leigh@ucl.ac.ukTelephone +44 (0)20 7679 3074Page last modified on 16 may 16 11:28
			by Shanaz Begum
			*NOTE: All scholarship and student funding schemes are subject to availability of funds, and details given here are subject to change at any time. Potential applicants are urged to check information regularly to ensure they are aware of current procedures, deadlines etc.Page Support l Request printed information l DisclaimerPage maintained by Student Funding, UCL Registry© UCL 1999–2017
          
				    
				Lateness penalties for Undergraduate and Postgraduate (Taught) essays:Planning, time-management and the meeting of deadlines are
part of the personal and professional skills expected of all graduates. For
this reason, UCL expects students to submit all coursework by the published
deadline date and time, after which penalties will be applied.If a student experiences something which prevents them from
meeting a deadline that is sudden, unexpected, significantly disruptive and
beyond their control, they should submit an Extenuating Circumstances (EC) Form.
If the request is accepted, the student may be granted an extension. If the
deadline has already passed, the late submission may be condoned i.e. there
will be no penalty for submitting late.Further information:· Late Submission Penalties· Extenuating CircumstancesPenalties for over-length coursework, including dissertations: Assessed work should not exceed the prescribed word count. References and footnotes count towards the word limit; the bibliography, title and cover sheet do not.Minimum LengthPlease note there is no automatic penalty for under-length essays providing there is sufficient suitable content.Reuse of materialAny paper submitted by you is presumed to be original work that has not previously been submitted for another course. You should therefore, as a rule, avoid writing on topics that you have written on previously. If you consider that there is good reason for you to revisit a topic, or to overlap with previously submitted work, then you must consult, and obtain prior written approval from the course tutor. If permission is granted, the onus will nevertheless remain on you to avoid mere duplication.Plagiarism
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy.  The Keeling Centre are pleased to announce that in the Autumn of 2017, a supplementary lecture will be given by Professor Dorothea Frede (University of Hamburg, Humboldt University) and will be entitled 'Aristotle on the Importance of Laws, Rules and Institutions'. 19 October 20175pm-7pmLocation:Lecture Theatre D10325 Gordon St, UCL London WC1H 0AYDorothea Frede is Professor Emeritus at the University of Hamburg and Honorary Professor at the Humboldt University at Berlin. Since 2006 she has been the Mills Adjunct Professor of Philosophy at UC Berkeley. Prof Frede has published widely on a number of topics within Ancient Philosophy, with a particular focus on Aristotle, Plato and Hellenistic philosophy. She has also published on the work of Martin Heidegger.  In addition to the lecture, Professor Frede will be running a Graduate Masterclass on Wednesday 18th October for students of the University of London. For inquiries please contact Margaret Hampson (margaret.hampson.09@ucl.ac.uk).Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy.  The 2015-2016 lecture was given by Professor Susanne Bobzien (All Souls, Oxford) and was entitled 'Did Frege plagiarize the Stoics?'Prof. Bobzien also ran a Graduate Masterclass on Tuesday 15th March, attended by Graduate Students from UCL, KCL and Royal Holloway University. Susanne Bobzien is professor of philosophy and Senior Research Scholar at All Souls College, Oxford. Before joining Oxford, Professor Bobzien was at Yale University (2002 to 2013). Her research interest include ancient logic and ancient theories of determinism and freedom. She is author of Determinism and Freedom in Stoic Philosophy.Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Learn more>Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy. The lecture in 2014 was given by Prof. Gail Fine and was entitled 'Knowledge, Belief and Perception in the Phaedo'Held on: 12 March 20144pm-6pmHeld at:Gustave Tuck Lecture Theatre Wilkins Building, UCL Gower Street, London WC1E 6BTKnowledge and Belief in Republic 5 Professor Fine also ran a Masterclass for Graduate students entitled 'Knowledge and Belief in Republic 5.', held at the Department of Philosophy on 11 March 2014.Prof. Fine is visiting Professor of Ancient Philosophy at Merton College, Oxford. Her books include:Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Together with the UCL Greek and Latin, and through the generosity of a private donor, the UCL Philosophy department organises an annual S.V. Keeling Memorial Lecture in Ancient Philosophy.  The 2014-2015 lecture was given by Professor David Sedley and was entitled 'Socrates' Second Voyage (Plato, Phaedo, 99-101)'Held: 13 May 20155pm-7pmWith a prior reception held in the JZ Young Lecture Theater FoyerAssociated with the lecture was a Masterclass for Graduate students led by Prof. Sedley on 12 May 2015. Prof. Sedley is Laurence Professor of Ancient Philosophy Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge. His books include: Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Most of the first ten lectures have been published in Modern Thinkers and Ancient Thinkers, edited by R. W. Sharples (London: UCL Press, 1993). Most of the second ten lectures have been published in Perspectives on Greek Philosophy, edited by R. W. Sharples (Aldershot: Ashgate, 2003). Below you will find a list of all previous Keeling lectures.Stephen Halliwell - 'To Banish
or Not to Banish? The Dilemma of Plato's Relationship to Poetry'  Dorothea Frede - 'Pleasure and
Pain in Aristotle’s Ethics'  Learn more>
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main libraryAll major areas of philosophy are available for study at UCL, covering branches such as political thought, epistemology and metaphysics, and also drawing upon the writings of philosophers both ancient and modern to place your studies in context.
 

   Undergraduate

 

 

   Graduate (Taught)

 

 

   Graduate (Research)

 

 

   Why UCL Philosophy?

 

 

   Study Abroad at UCL

 

 

   Careers & Destinations

 

				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main libraryUCL Philosophy graduates often go on to undertake careers in law, computing, academia, public administration, publishing,
and writing or journalism. It is notable that many of our graduates work for
publicly funded bodies, and many others in relatively small organisations. Others have joined the police, started
their own business, or undertaken further study.Ricky Gervais  (Philosophy BA, 1983)Comedian, actor, director, producer, musician, writer, and former radio presenter. He received widespread success and critical acclaim with the TV series 'The Office' and has since gone one to appear in Hollywood movies including 'Cemetry Junction', 'Ghost Town' and 'The Invention of Lying'.Johnathan Dimbleby (Philosophy BA, 1969)Chair of BBC Radio 4's Any Questions? since 1987, Johnathan Dimbleby is also a past President of the Soil Association and CPRE. He is currently President of the VSO (since 1997) and chairman of Index on Censorship (since 2008). He is also a trustee of Dimbleby Cancer Care.Peter Cave (Philosophy BA, 1972)Author of a number of books including 'This Sentence is False', 'Can A Robot Be Human?', 'What's Wrong With Eating People?', 'Humanism: A Beginner's Guide', 'Do Llamas Fall in Love?' and 'Philosophy'. He has also appeared on BBC Radio 4.Ken Follett (Philosophy BA, 1970)Author Ken Follett has sold over 100 million copies of his books worldwide. Four of his works have reached the number one spot on the New York Times best-seller list - 'The Key to Rebecca', 'Lie Down with Lions', 'Triple' and 'World Without End'.Noreena Hertz (Philosophy & Economics BA, 1987)An economist, author and campaigner, Noreena Hertz has previously been listed as one of the Guardian's Top 101 Female Public Intellectuals. Her 2002 book 'The Silent Takeover' famously warned that unregulated markets, corporate greed, and over-powerful financial institutions would have serious global consequences.Shahrar Ali (PhD, 2004) Now working in green politics, Dr Shahrar Ali has formerly worked as a researcher in the European Parliament on the risks of GM food. He is an officer of London Green Party. His PhD focused on examining lying and deception, with specific reference to public life. 
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				
 

   How to apply

 

				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The doctoral programme at UCL provides students with the opportunity to conduct original research in philosophy in one of UK's top philosophy departments, under the supervision of prominent academics in the field. The PhD programme is designed to prepare students for an academic career, whether it be via the three-year (minimum) MPhil/PhD or the two-year (minimum) PhD following on from the MPhil Stud or equivalent, by ensuring that students receive grounding across a range of topics as well as producing a research thesis.September 2018
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        The usual prerequisite for the MPhil/PhD is a one-year research degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Direct admission to the PhD requires the MPhil Stud (or equivalent). All applicants for research degrees must submit two short pieces of work, of about 2,000 words each, with their application.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: GoodFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            The MPhil/PhD in Philosophy at UCL is a three year (minimum) research programme. It requires students to take graduate courses assessed by way of several papers in their first year, and, provided successful upgrade to the PhD, to produce a thesis of original research under the guidance of their supervisor(s). The PhD degree is awarded on the basis of a thesis of approximately 75,000 (not more than 80,000) words. The candidate is also given a viva voce examination. 
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        MPhil/PhD and PhD candidates will be considered for AHRC funding through the LAHP (London Arts & Humanities Partnership), whose members are UCL, King's College London, and the School of Advanced Study at the University of London. Other scholarships and sources of funding may be available; please check the UCL Scholarships and Funding website. You should take note of funding application deadlines as these can differ from programme application deadlines.The department has a set of funds to offer awards to research students which are allocated on the basis of merit and need. These include the Follett Scholarship (1-year award of £13,000); the Jacobsen Scholarship (1-year award of £9,000) and one or two S V Keeling Scholarships in ancient philosophy (covering UK/EU fees and maintenance matching AHRC funding). Some smaller department awards are also listed below.For a comprehensive list of the funding opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website.
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        Recent graduates with a PhD in philosophy from UCL have gained prestigious academic fellowships as well as postdoctoral placements in the UK and elsewhere in Europe (for example at the University of Oxford, the University of London, University of Cambridge, Sheffield University, University of Antwerp, and the Institute of Philosophy, UNAM, Mexico). Others have gone on to lectureships in the UK (for example at the University of Oxford, University of York, LSE) and overseas at the University of Cape Town and the University of Melbourne. 

Those who have not pursued an academic career have entered a variety of professions, including law, public policy, and publishing.The department has an outstanding job placement record in a highly competitive academic market. The most successful candidates in this market are valued for their range of teaching competence, provided for by the taught elements of the MPhil/PhD programme, as well as for their particular area of specialisation, determined by the research topic of the doctoral thesis.

During the course of the programme, students receive training in presentational skills, interview practice and teaching methods, and are encouraged to present their research at the department's Work in Progress seminars, and at graduate and academic conferences in the UK and overseas.The department has links with US universities (Berkeley, Columbia and Yale). Academic staff are involved in the running of the Aristotelian Society, the main philosophy society in the UK. Others are involved in running the Institute of Classical Studies lecture series, and the Keeling Colloquia and Lectures in ancient philosophy. Philosophy graduate students host a philosophy conference at the start of every year, and co-organise an annual graduate philosophy conference with graduate students at Berkeley. Finally, the Royal Institute of Philosophy lecture series, co-ordinated by the Institute of Philosophy at Senate House, is open to our graduate students.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MPhil/PhD and PhD start date is September each year. For 2017 entry, applications open in October 2016, and are due by January 3 2017. Please attach two samples of your written work (2000 words each). For more information see our How to apply page.For more information see our Applications page. The normal route to PhD study in the department is by way of undertaking the two-year MPhil Stud initially. Students who have completed the MPhil Stud (or an equivalent) will have gained sufficient depth and breadth of knowledge to progress to the two-year (minimum) PhD. There is a provision for those who have sufficient graduate training in Philosophy to be admitted to the three-year MPhil/ PhD programme. If an offer is made the graduate committee who review applications will make this at the appropriate entry level (MPhil Stud, MPhil/PhD or PhD) depending on your previous studies. It is therefore important to include as full transcripts as possible so an appropriate offer is made.There is a list of department scholarships of the UCL funding pages.
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The MPhil Stud in Philosophy at UCL is one of the pre-eminent research Master's in philosophy in the UK. Over a period of two years students complete coursework across a specified range of areas, and produce a substantial research thesis. Students who have completed the MPhil Stud will have gained sufficient depth and breadth of knowledge to progress to the PhD. September 2018
                            Note on fees:
                            The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                            
                        A first-class UK Bachelor's degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. All applicants for research degrees must submit two short pieces of work, of about 2,000 words each, with their application.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: GoodFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            In their first year, students take the following three  compulsory courses (worth 15 credits each):A three-term 
fortnightly  seminar for all research students, run by two members of 
staff. This seminar  focuses on the recent philosophical literature. 
Students give presentations and  it is expected that each MPhil Stud 
student will give a senior seminar  presentation during their two years 
on the course.Close reading of a classic  philosophical text, for first year MPhil Stud students only (Term 1). Close reading of a classic  philosophical text, for first year MPhil Stud students only (Term 2).In addition, students must take seven optional 
courses (worth 15 credits each), usually distributed as follows:These courses  can either be MPhil Stud  courses covering some region of philosophy in
 depth, or Research Seminars in  which faculty members present their 
latest research.In the third term,  students work on their 
dissertation with their supervisor.
In their second year, students must take the following two compulsory courses:A three-term 
fortnightly  seminar for all research students focusing on recent philosophical literature and run by two members of 
staff.Students give presentations and  it is expected that each MPhil Stud 
student will give a senior seminar  presentation during their two years 
on the course. (15 credits)A weekly seminar in which students  present work in progress from their theses (30 credits). In addition, students must take three optional courses in 
Term 1 (worth 15 credits each). In their second term, students receive 
individual 
 supervision on their thesis project, and the third term is spent 
entirely  working on the thesis.Students must take SEVEN optional courses in their first  year, and 
THREE in their second year.Students’ choices among optional courses  
are constrained as follows: The A, B and C lists correspond to a rough division of philosophical 
topics into:  The department has a set of funds to offer awards to research 
students which are allocated on the basis of merit and need. These 
include the Follett Scholarship, a one-year award of £13,000; the S V 
Keeling Scholarship, a three-year scholarship to support research in 
philosophy, principally in ancient philosophy, worth £7,500 per year; 
Ayer, Dawes Hicks, Jacobsen, Melhuish, J S Mill Scholarships, each worth
 £500–£1,000. For a comprehensive list of the funding 
opportunities available at UCL, including funding relevant to your 
nationality, please visit the Scholarships and Funding website.Recent graduates have gained prestigious 
fellowships as well as postdoctoral placements in the UK and elsewhere 
in Europe. Others have gone on to lectureships in the UK.The breadth and quantity of 
pre-doctoral graduate-level modules required by the UCL MPhil Stud 
programme is unmatched by any other UK Philosophy department, ensuring 
that our research students enter specialist doctoral work with a deep 
general understanding of the discipline.
The department has an outstanding job placement record in a highly 
competitive market that values a range of areas of teaching competence 
in addition to an area of specialisation. Students also receive training
 in transferable presentational skills, interview practice and teaching 
methods.The department has links with US 
universities (Berkeley, Columbia and Yale). Academic staff are involved 
in the running of the Aristotelian Society, which is the main philosophy
 society in the UK.The course is designed to give students both breadth and depth of study in the field at an advanced level, as well as the opportunity to develop independent research ideas in a sustained piece of original work.Over the intensive two year programme, students taking the MPhil. Stud. complete 16 term length modules, 10 for credit assessed by way of a paper, and in addition, a 30,000 research thesis. The course is structured so that students take the majority of the assessed courses in the first year (typically 8-9), leaving them largely free to focus on their research in the second year. A certain amount of breadth is required of the courses taken for credit, so that although students are able to specialise to some extent in their area of research, they will write papers of significant length (4500 words) across several subject areas. Work on the thesis is begun in the summer of the first year and completed by September of the following year.  UCL Philosophy admits graduate 
students to work for the degrees of MA, MPhil Stud, MPhil/PhD, and PhD. The MPhil Stud programme has been conceived as preparation 
for a career in teaching philosophy and it provides a broader background
 
and training in philosophy, before proceeding to the PhD.  The deadline for applications to the MPhil Stud MPhil/PhD and PhD is 3 January 2017.  All applicants for research degrees (MPhil
 Stud, MPhil/PhD or PhD) should submit two short pieces of work; c. 
2,000 words each, with their application. When using the online 
admissions system there are various points where you are able to and/or 
required to upload certain documents. Please note that you are only able
 to upload documents less than 2 MB in size and in the file formats 
.doc, .docx, .jpg or .pdf. More information about uploads is available here.  You can upload the writing samples instead of one of the 
other documents requested (e.g. CV, English language certificate or 
Transcript).  More guidance on the writing samples can be found in here. MPhil Stud: a first-class UK Bachelor’s degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.  MPhil/PhD: a one-year research degree in Philosophy or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard.Exceptions may be made in the case of candidates
 with strong upper second class Honours degrees, or equivalent 
qualifications, supported by good references.In exceptional circumstances, applicants for research degrees 
who will have completed  sufficient graduate training in philosophy by 
the time they enrol will be considered for admission as MPhil/PhD 
students. Decisions concerning eligibility for entry at this point in 
the programme will be made by the admissions tutor when reviewing 
application materials. The preferred route to studying for a PhD in the 
department is by taking the two year MPhil Stud degree first. When applying online for the MPhil Stud online the course code 
RMPPHISING09 in the Research Subject Area / Taught Programme Title 
section. The number of new research students registering 
each year about 10. Overall there are roughly 50 research students in 
the department.  The department warmly welcomes graduate students 
who are working towards higher degrees at other universities and who 
would wish to do either course work or research in London for a period 
normally of one year. Arrangements can be made for the award of grades 
or other credits that may be required by the degree-giving university. Postdoctoral students may also be admitted for short periods, and the 
experience of the department is that such arrangements are highly 
beneficial. Finally, the department accept students who (for financial 
reasons etc.) wish to enrol on a part-time basis; and this lengthens 
their period of study. There is a list of department scholarships of the UCL funding pages.
			
 

   How to apply

 

				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				The Philosophy MA enables students to benefit from the acknowledged expertise of UCL's lively, close-knit intellectual community, and also access the stimulation and dynamism of London's wider philosophical community. The programme offers the flexibility for recent graduates in the subject to study chosen topics in greater depth.September 2018
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        Philosophy (BA) graduates who intend to progress to PhD study are advised to apply for the two year Master of Philosophical Studies (MPhil Stud). September 2018
                                Note on fees:
                                The tuition fees shown are for the year indicated above. Fees for subsequent years may increase or otherwise vary. Further information on fee status, fee increases and the fee schedule can be viewed on the UCL Current Students website.
                                
                            A minimum of a upper second-class Bachelor's degree in philosophy from a UK university or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Applicants with a strong degree in a non-philosophical subject are welcome.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency.The English language level for this programme is: GoodFurther information can be found on our English language requirements page.Country-specific information, including details of when UCL representatives are visiting your part of the world, can be obtained from the International Students website.International applicants can find out the equivalent qualification for their country by selecting from the list below.Select your country:
                                
                                    Select a country
                                    
                                        Afghanistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Albania
                                    
                                    
                                        Algeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Argentina
                                    
                                    
                                        Armenia
                                    
                                    
                                        Australia
                                    
                                    
                                        Austria
                                    
                                    
                                        Azerbaijan
                                    
                                    
                                        Bahrain
                                    
                                    
                                        Bangladesh
                                    
                                    
                                        Barbados
                                    
                                    
                                        Belarus
                                    
                                    
                                        Belgium
                                    
                                    
                                        Belize
                                    
                                    
                                        Bolivia
                                    
                                    
                                        Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                    
                                    
                                        Botswana
                                    
                                    
                                        Brazil
                                    
                                    
                                        Brunei
                                    
                                    
                                        Bulgaria
                                    
                                    
                                        Cambodia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cameroon
                                    
                                    
                                        Canada
                                    
                                    
                                        Caribbean / West Indies
                                    
                                    
                                        Chile
                                    
                                    
                                        China
                                    
                                    
                                        Colombia
                                    
                                    
                                        Congo (DR)
                                    
                                    
                                        Costa Rica
                                    
                                    
                                        Croatia
                                    
                                    
                                        Cuba
                                    
                                    
                                        Cyprus (Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities)
                                    
                                    
                                        Czech Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Denmark
                                    
                                    
                                        Dominican Republic
                                    
                                    
                                        Ecuador
                                    
                                    
                                        Egypt
                                    
                                    
                                        El Salvador
                                    
                                    
                                        Eritrea
                                    
                                    
                                        Estonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Ethiopia
                                    
                                    
                                        Finland
                                    
                                    
                                        France
                                    
                                    
                                        Georgia
                                    
                                    
                                        Germany
                                    
                                    
                                        Ghana
                                    
                                    
                                        Greece
                                    
                                    
                                        Guatemala
                                    
                                    
                                        Guyana
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Honduras
                                    
                                    
                                        Hong Kong
                                    
                                    
                                        Hungary
                                    
                                    
                                        Iceland
                                    
                                    
                                        India
                                    
                                    
                                        Indonesia
                                    
                                    
                                        Iran
                                    
                                    
                                        Iraq
                                    
                                    
                                        Ireland
                                    
                                    
                                        Israel
                                    
                                    
                                        Italy
                                    
                                    
                                        Ivory Coast
                                    
                                    
                                        Jamaica
                                    
                                    
                                        Japan
                                    
                                    
                                        Jordan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kazakhstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Kenya
                                    
                                    
                                        Kuwait
                                    
                                    
                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                    
                                    
                                        Latvia
                                    
                                    
                                        Lebanon
                                    
                                    
                                        Lesotho
                                    
                                    
                                        Liberia
                                    
                                    
                                        Libya
                                    
                                    
                                        Lithuania
                                    
                                    
                                        Luxembourg
                                    
                                    
                                        Macau
                                    
                                    
                                        Macedonia
                                    
                                    
                                        Madagascar
                                    
                                    
                                        Malawi
                                    
                                    
                                        Malaysia
                                    
                                    
                                        Malta
                                    
                                    
                                        Mauritius
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                    
                                    
                                        Moldova
                                    
                                    
                                        Mongolia
                                    
                                    
                                        Montenegro
                                    
                                    
                                        Morocco
                                    
                                    
                                        Myanmar (Burma)
                                    
                                    
                                        Namibia
                                    
                                    
                                        Nepal
                                    
                                    
                                        Netherlands
                                    
                                    
                                        New Zealand
                                    
                                    
                                        Nicaragua
                                    
                                    
                                        Nigeria
                                    
                                    
                                        Norway
                                    
                                    
                                        Oman
                                    
                                    
                                        Pakistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Panama
                                    
                                    
                                        Papua New Guinea
                                    
                                    
                                        Paraguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Peru
                                    
                                    
                                        Philippines
                                    
                                    
                                        Poland
                                    
                                    
                                        Portugal
                                    
                                    
                                        Qatar
                                    
                                    
                                        Romania
                                    
                                    
                                        Russia
                                    
                                    
                                        Rwanda
                                    
                                    
                                        Saudi Arabia
                                    
                                    
                                        Senegal
                                    
                                    
                                        Serbia 
                                    
                                    
                                        Sierra Leone
                                    
                                    
                                        Singapore
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovakia
                                    
                                    
                                        Slovenia
                                    
                                    
                                        South Africa
                                    
                                    
                                        South Korea
                                    
                                    
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                                        Sri Lanka
                                    
                                    
                                        Sudan
                                    
                                    
                                        Sweden
                                    
                                    
                                        Switzerland
                                    
                                    
                                        Syria
                                    
                                    
                                        Taiwan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tajikistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Tanzania
                                    
                                    
                                        Thailand
                                    
                                    
                                        Trinidad & Tobago
                                    
                                    
                                        Tunisia
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkey (including Turkish sector of Cyprus)
                                    
                                    
                                        Turkmenistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Uganda
                                    
                                    
                                        Ukraine
                                    
                                    
                                        United Arab Emirates (UAE)
                                    
                                    
                                        United States of America
                                    
                                    
                                        Uruguay
                                    
                                    
                                        Uzbekistan
                                    
                                    
                                        Venezuela
                                    
                                    
                                        Vietnam
                                    
                                    
                                        Zambia
                                    
                                    
                                        Zimbabwe
                                    
                                
                            
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018The programme allows students to develop an advanced knowledge of problems in contemporary analytic philosophy, the history of philosophy and the study of value. It provides students with an understanding of a representative range of central philosophical debates and of the nature of philosophical problems, and encourages them to develop and defend their own viewpoint.Students undertake modules to the value of 180 credits.The programme consists of two core modules (30 credits), six optional modules (90 credits) and a research dissertation (60 credits).These modules introduce students to graduate study in philosophy. Students will give short presentations on central topics and classic papers which form the basis of discussion.Options may include the following: All students undertake an independent research project in any area of philosophy taught and approved by the department, leading to in a dissertation of 12,000 words.The programme is taught through a combination of seminars, lectures, and supervisions. Students' performance is assessed through examinations, presentations, coursework, and the dissertation.
                                        Further information on modules and degree structure is available on the department website: 
                                        Philosophy MA
                                    
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Graduates of this programme have become successful lawyers, journalists, theatre directors and novelists among other careers. Those who perform sufficiently well on the MA can expect to pursue further research in philosophy in London or elsewhere.The programme equips graduates with the skills to analyse complex ideas, develop independence of judgement and originality of thought, evaluate arguments rigorously, present views lucidly both orally and on paper, and question orthodox views. The programme provides an ideal basis for future academic study and many graduates proceed to research degrees in the UK and abroad.Careers data is taken from the ‘Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education’ survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2012–2014 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018The department has strengths in philosophy of mind, language, political and moral philosophy, metaphysics, epistemology and the history of philosophy.Our students benefit significantly from our location in London, which is one of the international centres of philosophical activity. London is home of a number of renowned journals (Philosophy; Mind & Language; Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society) and hosts regular visiting speakers from across the world. Over 60 philosophers are active in London making it one of the largest and most varied philosophical communities in the world.
                                            Department: Philosophy
                                        
                                            Student / staff ratios
                                            
                                                › 22 staff
                                                
                                                    including 2 postdocs
                                                
                                            
                                            
                                                › 22 taught students
                                            
                                            
                                                › 61 research students
                                            
                                        The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.
                                                The following REF score was awarded to the department: Philosophy
                                                75% rated 4* (‘world-leading’) or 3* (‘internationally excellent’)
                                            Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        September 2018Students are advised to apply as early as possible due to competition for places. Those applying for scholarship funding (particularly overseas applicants) should take note of application deadlines.The MA offers a means to study philosophy for an additional year after completing an undergraduate degree and also provides a good basis for work outside of universities. Philosophy graduates who wish to develop a career in teaching philosophy are advised to apply directly for the MPhil Stud.Applications close on 1 February each year and early submission is recommended.For more information see our Applications page.When we assess your application we would like to learn:Together with essential academic requirements, the personal statement is your opportunity to illustrate whether your reasons for applying to this programme match what the programme offers.
                            Degree last modified on 6 October 2017 at 13:41 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                        
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				Prof. Sebasatian Gardner – Professor of Philosophy “UCL provides a superb context for pursuing postgraduate
study in Philosophy. The Department is ranked among the best in the country for
its research and attaches the highest importance to its teaching. MA students
have the opportunity to engage intensively with a wide variety of areas in and
approaches to philosophy and its history, receive full support and
encouragement, and achieve striking results. After completing the MA many
proceed to research degrees.”
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main library
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main library "The programme is unique in training its students
rigorously but with a personal touch. The class is small and this allows for
one to receive adequate attention from faculty members and interact with all of
one's peers. I found the compulsory practical criticism class especially useful
for honing my skills in reading closely and critically. The tutorial system
allows for great flexibility in pursuing one's interests in depth and also
acquiring a broad education in philosophy. Studying philosophy at UCL combines
the advantages of being in an intimate college atmosphere and being in a large
research environment, since there are several other excellent philosophy
departments in London and a thriving philosophy scene."  "For me, UCL was a place that you looked forward to going
to each day. You looked forward to the seminars, the supervisions,
the reading groups and the evenings in the pub, because they were fun, because
the people were interesting and unpretentious, and because you learned
something from them. London is a terrific place to philosophise: there
are so many excellent people working or visiting there at any time, and so
much going on, formally and informally, that even if one never read a single
thing, one would have a sense of immunity from ignorance of the latest ideas." 
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main library  "Having shopped around a little I chose to apply for the philosophy MA at
UCL. It seemed a good option: a one year commitment at a top-rated philosophy
department (not to mention the MA's inter-collegiate nature, giving access to
philosophers throughout London), and a chance to try out a fairly wide range of
subjects. The year went well and I was able to work closely in tutorials with a
number of the UCL philosophers. I'm now a little clearer, having dabbled in a
number of subjects in the course of the MA, as to which areas I now want to
focus on. I'm starting the MPhil Stud at UCL this coming year, and looking
forward to it immensely."
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main library




 "I chose to come to UCL primarily because of the strength of the department.
As one of the leading centres in the philosophy of perception, it was an
obvious choice. Intellectually, my time at UCL was as stimulating and
challenging as I had hoped it would be and immensely
enjoyable. The department is down-to-earth, friendly, and very sociable. My time there was an incredibly rewarding experience."
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main libraryThe Philosophy department regularly welcomes study abroad students and we pride ourselves on our supportive learning environment. We offer a range of courses across political and moral philosophy, epistemology, metaphysics and much more. Our courses equip students with the tools and skills needed to challenge, analyse and present complex ideas and problems, whether this be the distinction between right and wrong, questions of the state, liberty and law, or ethics, logic and the nature of knowledge and belief.As part of the Philosophy department, you'll have access
     to meetings and events at the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the
     Aristotelian Society and the University of London’s Institute of
     Philosophy.UCL's history, reputation and academic standing makes it a top destination for study abroad in the UK. Come and study alongside regular UCL and international students and benefit from our world-class teaching system and renowned academics. If you are looking to study in the Philosophy department as an
Erasmus student, you will need to check an Erasmus agreement is in place with
your institution and apply via this route. We look forward to welcoming you at UCL Philosophy! You can contact the department at: philosophy@ucl.ac.uk. 
				    UCL Philosophy
				    
				UCL students in the main libraryPhilosophy was from the very foundation of UCL always intended 
to play a large and important part in the curriculum. This was in 
keeping with the idea of philosophy as a means of liberal education held
 by such members of the original council as James Mill, Henry Brougham 
and George Grote. In the first statement, issued in 1827, concerning the
 nature and objectives of the college's foundation, it states: The department has notable strengths in: Compare UCL's Philosophy programmes with others: