
				    UCL Centre for Publishing
				    
				The UCL Centre for Publishing offers various opportunities for post-graduate level study.Our MA programme has a record of successfully training new entrants to the profession, and has close connections to the book trade world, nationally and internationally.We have a variety of PhD students who are undertaking research with us, and are interested in hearing from those who are considering undertaking PhD research in Publishing or Book Trade areas. We also offer the opportunity to study individual modules from our MA programme as Short Courses, which can contribute to professional development, and count towards the MA should it be pursued further.
				    UCL Centre for Publishing
				    
				"Publishing people are quirky, creative, unpredictable, exasperating, endearing, infuriating and gloriously diverse..." Professor Iain Stevenson, Book Makers Our MA course prepares you for a career in the challenging world of publishing. Taught by academics in the fields of Book History and Publishing Studies, and also experts and practitioners in the field, with master classes from industry leaders, the programme includes the knowledge, skills and understanding you need to become a successful publisher. From mass-market fiction to scholarly journals, from editorial to marketing, from e-content management to contracts, UCL’s MA in Publishing offers comprehensive preparation for entry to the industry.Today's publishing industry needs graduates with both a practical insight into how this complex industry functions and a range of transferable skills. This is what this course will give you. In particular, on successful completion you will be able to apply and develop:Further information is available on how to apply.The Centre for Publishing MA aims to cover a wide spread of publishing disciplines, from fiction and trade to professional, academic, scholarly and educational. Teaching staff possess a range of advanced research knowledge, book trade experience and networks of contacts across all fields in the UK and internationally.The aim of the course is to equip you with a clear understanding of how the publishing industry works and to give you the knowledge, confidence and abilities to move quickly in building a successful publishing career. The course is modular with an emphasis on practical skills and exercises based on the real-world and team working. Topics covered include business, law, editorial management, product development, new media and research methods. Students are encouraged to be active in discussion and debate. The research environment of the Centre inspires and informs teaching. Tutors, both academics and practitioners, encourage you to explore and report on major current issues.  You will also produce a supervised research thesis. At the end of the course, taken either full- or part-time, if you have made the most of the opportunities the course offers, you should be a professional publisher ready to launch your career with a qualification from a university that the industry recognises and values.Term One (September - December) Core modulesTerm Two (January - March) Optional modules, with the exception of INSTG068.  NOTE that optional modules will only run if  there is a quorate amount of sign-ups, and that UCL reserves the right to withdraw any option from year to year.  Check on application if there is a particular module you are interested in taking. Term Three (May - June)The course is taught by academic experts, often in collaboration with professional leaders in their field, who between them are connected via various channels with all the leading international publishers.Core Academic Staff:Visiting and Honorary LecturersIn addition, leading publishers, literary agents, authors, legal experts, booksellers and electronic authorities visit the course to give lectures and presentations. There are ‘master classes’ from industry leaders on current and controversial issues and field visits to retailers, publishers and libraries.
				    UCL Centre for Publishing
				    
				In comparison with other sectors of the economy, publishing has historically
  seriously under-invested in research and development. Old attitudes are changing
  rapidly as publishers see for themselves the benefits of a more systematic,
  evidence-based, approach to the some of the big questions facing the industry.
  High quality publishing research has never been more relevant or more highly
sought after. Our doctoral programme is open to recent graduates and professional practitioners
  alike, and aims to provide a learning environment which encourages critical
  thought, the building of links between theory and practice, and self-direction
  within a supportive, highly engaged, peer community. Our current
  students,
  both full and part-time, come from different parts of the world, and from a
  range of publishing and information management backgrounds. There are also
  opportunities, from time to time, for well qualified staff to join the Centre
as research fellows to work on medium- and longer-term funded projects. PhD students undertake a piece of supervised research, working independently
  or as part of a larger research team working on externally funded projects.
  There are also ample opportunities for collaboration with publishers, libraries
  or other institutions in the London area and with other departments at UCL.
  The PhD is awarded for a thesis of no more than 100,000 words which must represent
a distinct and significant contribution to publishing research.How to apply
				    UCL Centre for Publishing
				    
				 The Centre for Publishing welcomes applications for the MA course in Publishing,
  starting in September each year. 
Normal UCL requirements (second-class Honours or equivalent) for admission to
a graduate programme apply, but outstanding candidates will exceptionally be considered
if they can offer significant relevant industry experience. For an informal discussion and for advice, please contact Dr Nick Canty (n.canty@ucl.ac.uk), or see below. Closing date: 31st of May each year (to take the course in the September of the same year).  BE AWARE THAT ONCE WE HAVE OFFERED PLACES TO FILL OUR COHORT, APPLICATIONS MAY CLOSE SOONER:  EARLY APPLICATIONS ARE RECOMMENDED. Applications should be made using the online or downloadable application form. For more detailed information on how to apply to UCL see: 
  http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate-study/  Information for international students can be found at:
  http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/international-students/Fees can be found here.We select students for places on the MA after carefully reviewing the application form, and then inviting for interview those that we feel would best fit the course demands.  Skype or email interviews are arranged for overseas students. Experience in publishing is not regarded as a pre-requisite - any work experience that demonstrates good people skills, written communication skills, design work, or business sense is useful.  A very high level of fluency is vital, and international students should be aware that this is a demanding course, focussing on publishing in the English-speaking world, as it operates within global contexts.  To cope with the challenges the course provides, your English must be of an excellent standard, and you must understand the need for accuracy and good writing style that the publishing industry expects.This course does NOT cover journalism, or magazine publishing.  Neither is it a creative writing course.  It is for people who want a career in trade, academic, or STM publishing.  Your personal statement should tell us something about your ambitions, and what you like to read.  Don't just tell us you love reading -- everyone says that! -- but be specific.  What genres?  What bestsellers?  We are also looking for people who are genuinely interested in the industry  - there are plenty of free newsfeeds out there, so show us what you follow, and the trends and news items in publishing that you are aware of.  You don't need to know exactly what company you want to work for, or what job role - but we need to see you are keen to learn about the whole process of publishing, and open to engaging with challenging individual and group work tasks.Our professional contacts and contexts are crucial parts of the course - and your future working environments.  We are looking for people we feel can work professionally, often under pressure, and represent themselves - and UCL - in a positive light.  We are very proud of our graduates, who have helped build the course's reputation for excellence, and who now work for publishers all over the world, in big companies, in small ones - and in ones they have started themselves.Being a part of the UCL MA in Publishing is to be part of a supportive, dynamic, creative, and full programme - if this sounds appealing to you, then we look forward to receiving your application!We have a couple of scholarships available for offer holders for
this coming year. Please note the Wiley
scholarship is only available to full time Home and EU students. The
Tebbutt scholarship is open to all Home and EU offer holders. Details of other awards
suitable for international students, and further opportunities for home and EU
students, can be found on the UCL Graduate School webpages: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/scholarships/UCL John Wiley ScholarshipA UCL Wiley Scholarship has been established by the publishers 
John Wiley and Sons Ltd to be awarded to an outstanding MA in Publishing student 
at the UCL Centre for Publishing. The successful candidate will be selected 
through an interview process by Wiley and UCL representatives. The UCL Wiley 
Scholarship will cover full tuition fees for the one year course and an 
internship at Wiley in the UK.
To Apply:For further information please contact: Dr Daniel Boswell (d.boswell@ucl.ac.uk)David Tebbutt
ScholarshipFaber and Faber and UCL awards a scholarship in memory of the 
late David Tebbutt, Finance Director of Faber and Faber from 2002 until his 
untimely death in September 2011. The UCL David Tebbutt Scholarship is awarded annually to fully 
fund a place on the MA in Publishing programme, and is open to UK and EU 
applicants. The scholarship is funded by the David Tebbutt Trust, which is 
jointly administered by Faber and Faber and the Tebbutt family. The principal 
aim of the Trust is to further the education of those wishing to pursue a career 
in the publishing, writing and information industries, and related fields of 
activity. As well as funding a full year's fees, the scholarship will also carry 
a guaranteed work placement with Faber and Faber. To Apply: Please contact Dr Daniel Boswell (d.boswell@ucl.ac.uk) with any queries.The Stationers
Foundation Bursary UK
offer holders on UCL's MA in Publishing may apply for a £6,000
bursary from the Stationers Foundation. The student will also be
offered the opportunity to receive mentoring during their studies from an
appropriate member of the Stationers’ Company. On successful completion of
their Masters programme the award winner will be presented with the Freedom of
the Stationers’ Company and it is expected that they will participate in the
life of the Company. Dispensation for payment of the annual membership fee will
be given for the following three years.
To apply for this bursary complete the application form
available on the Stationers website here (link to this page https://stationers.org/education-charity/education/postgraduate-bursary-scheme.html) and
return to Ian Evans ian.evans@ucl.ac.uk
by Monday 19th June.
				    UCL Centre for Publishing
				    
				Please see the Departmental web page at http://www.ucl.ac.uk/dis/short-courses-cpd-information-studies. We currently have no vacancies on any of our Publishing modules for short course students. Watch this space for news on short courses in collaboration with the Institute of English Studies which we are developing over 2017. PLEASE NOTE: Availability of these depends on class space, and will vary accordingly from year to year.  Please contact Ian Evans (ian.evans@ucl.ac.uk) if you
have any queries about the possibilities from Summer 2017 onwards.
				    UCL Centre for Publishing
				    
				

    All students have the opportunity to try and gain work experience in the publishing
    industry, giving them the chance to see at first hand how the
    industry operates and to apply knowledge gained from the course.  Placements are not a compulsory part of the MA, but students will have access to opportunities offered by our publishing partners, and be assisted by tutors in creating cvs and in interview preparation. Placements come from across the publishing industry and
    include literary scouts and agents, trade and mass market publishers
    and more specialist academic and reference publishers. Placement hosts have recently (2016-2017) included: