
        © UCL 1999–2012There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions.The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.ukThe Slade offers two undergraduate programmes, the BA and the BFA in Fine Art; two Masters programmes, the MA and MFA in Fine Art; the MPhil/PhD in Fine Art, plus affiliate student programmes at all levels. An experimental research-oriented approach is at the heart of a studio-centred teaching environment, with each student - from BA/BFA through to PhD - expected to conduct individual and original research from day one.We
provide studio-centred teaching on our three year  BFA and four year BA.  At Graduate level we offer two
studio-based, research-centred programmes in Fine Art. A two calendar-year MA and a two academic-year MFA.The Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in
which to develop your doctoral research. We
have undergraduate exchange agreements with schools in the United States,
Europe, Israel and China and provide opportunities to international students at all levels for affiliate study.There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions. This information should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Slade Scholarships are awarded by nomination.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Grocers' Company Queen's Golden Jubilee Scholarship is open to UK nationals entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School in alternate years. The value of the scholarship is around £2,000 per year, for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory academic progress. Awards are made every four years, beginning in 2018.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The James Lewis Foundation Scholarship is an entrance scholarship in memory of James Lewis, for a UK national entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School. The value of the scholarship is £4,500 per year for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress.The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Painters’ Company Scholarship is open to undergraduate students, normally UK nationals, specialising in painting or drawing entering the second year of their programme. The value of the scholarship is £5,000 per year for the remaining years of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress. The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.BursariesEach year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000. The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in their final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.  The Clare Winsten Memorial Award is for a Slade graduate or graduating female UK student to enable them to develop their creative talents. One or two awards of £10,000 are available each year.The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Michael Farrell Memorial Prize is awarded in memory of Mick Farrell, a photography technician at the Slade (2003-2015). His artistic practice negotiated the relationship between photography and sculpture, and developed an experimental approach to process and object. His explorations led him to developing pin hole camera techniques where he eventually worked closely with colleague Cliff Haines to construct the Straw Camera which gives a unique physical presence to the photograph. £600 is awarded annually to a final year undergraduate student in Fine Art for excellence and innovation in photography and its relationship with form, image and process.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement.A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The following Scholarships are awarded by the Slade on the basis of merit and nomination by the entrance examiners following the entrance interviews.  Please note that all eligible applicants will be considered for all of these scholarships – no further application is required unless you are contacted by the Slade and specifically asked to do so.Graduate Taught entrants: Each year, we are delighted to be able to offer a number of generous MA/MFA studentships for UK/EU students as well as a selection of awards for International (non-EU) students.The Sarabande Foundation Scholarship award offers one fully funded MA/MFA studentship for a UK/EU student and will be bestowed on the basis of artistic merit, combined with demonstrated financial need.  Nominated candidates will be invited to apply specifically for this scholarship after the Entrance Examinations with successful applicants invited to a Sarabande Scholarship interview.The Artists Collecting Society prize is awarded on merit to an MA or MFA student entering the second year of study. The award is worth £3000.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Felix Slade Scholarships are entrance scholarships open to graduate Home and EU students. There are six awards available. The scholarship will cover £5000.00 towards the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA programme.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The Irving Wernick Scholarship is offered to an incoming Graduate 
student working primarily in portraiture or figuratively on entry to the
 School.  The award is worth £7000.00 in each year of the programme. The gift is in memory of a Slade alumnus, Irving Wernick. The Leonora Carrington Scholarship; the Eileen Gray Scholarship; the Yitzhak Danziger Scholarship. These awards are entrance scholarships open to Overseas students. Each award provides £5,000.00 towards the Overseas fees in each year of study of the MA or MFA programme. One award is available in each area (Fine Art Media, Painting and Sculpture).The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Siva-Finestone Scholarship is open to Home and EU students. The award is a partial fee award for the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA Fine Art programme. One award is available every two years, being awarded in odd-numbered years.The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000.The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in his or her final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award provides a free ACME studio for one year plus a bursary of up to £7,000 to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Barto Dos Santos Memorial Award of £5,000 is for outstanding achievement by a final year graduate student.The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.The Chadwell Award - graduating postgraduate students are to be offered the opportunity this year to apply to the Chadwell Award.  This annual competition for final year Fine Art postgraduates aims to provide a bridge between art school and professional practice by giving a recent graduate a free studio in Bow, East London for one year together with a bursary of £5000.  Different institutions are targeted each year and Slade students will benefit from the opportunity to be considered in 2015.The Chelsea Arts Club Special Projects Award of £2,000 is made annually to a continuing MA or MFA student to help them with the cost of their studies and materials in their final year. The Award also includes one year's membership of the Chelsea Arts Club. The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Land Securities Award provides a free studio space for one year and an exhibition to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Max Werner Drawing Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually to a final year graduate student who has demonstrated excellence in drawing.The Peter and Betty McLean Prize of £1,000 is awarded anually to a final year graduate student.The Slade is invited to nominate candidates for the annual Red Mansion Art Prize. The prize is a residency in China for a continuing graduate student.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement. A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Slade graduate students are invited to compete for one of six artist residencies in Hong Kong at the Academy of Visual Arts, Hong Kong Baptist University, China.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the Fees and Funding section above.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the section above. UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration,
 tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic 
year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual 
increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. 
Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and 
living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership which brings together three leading UK research organisations: University College London (UCL), King’s College, London (KCL) and the School of Advanced Study (SAS). The LAHP will be awarding up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study or University College London in 2017-18. These studentships, which normally cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU students. As well as funding for studentships and shared doctoral training, this will open up additional opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision for Slade students across these three leading research institutions. For further information, please see www.lahp.ac.uk.If you wish to be considered for a LAHP Studentship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities please see the following links:UCL Scholarships and FundingUCL Doctoral SchoolJoint Faculty Institute of Graduate StudiesApplicants must indicate on their UCL application form that they wish to apply for a UCL Scholarship. If you wish to be considered for a UCL Research Scholarship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding application. Many deadlines for scholarships fall early in the spring and you may need to apply for the October deadline.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.Jean Spencer and Malcolm Hughes Bursaries are available each year for MPhil/PhD students to enable them to further their research through projects, conferences, travel, or other research activities. The maximum size of any bursary is £500 and applications for smaller awards are encouraged. There are two deadlines per academic year and applications are considered at the Slade Doctoral Board.Other sources of funding for research including conference, travel and project funds can be found on the UCL Doctoral School web pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Slade Scholarships are awarded by nomination.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Grocers' Company Queen's Golden Jubilee Scholarship is open to UK nationals entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School in alternate years. The value of the scholarship is around £2,000 per year, for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory academic progress. Awards are made every four years, beginning in 2018.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The James Lewis Foundation Scholarship is an entrance scholarship in memory of James Lewis, for a UK national entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School. The value of the scholarship is £4,500 per year for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress.The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Painters’ Company Scholarship is open to undergraduate students, normally UK nationals, specialising in painting or drawing entering the second year of their programme. The value of the scholarship is £5,000 per year for the remaining years of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress. The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.BursariesEach year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000. The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in their final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.  The Clare Winsten Memorial Award is for a Slade graduate or graduating female UK student to enable them to develop their creative talents. One or two awards of £10,000 are available each year.The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Michael Farrell Memorial Prize is awarded in memory of Mick Farrell, a photography technician at the Slade (2003-2015). His artistic practice negotiated the relationship between photography and sculpture, and developed an experimental approach to process and object. His explorations led him to developing pin hole camera techniques where he eventually worked closely with colleague Cliff Haines to construct the Straw Camera which gives a unique physical presence to the photograph. £600 is awarded annually to a final year undergraduate student in Fine Art for excellence and innovation in photography and its relationship with form, image and process.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement.A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The following Scholarships are awarded by the Slade on the basis of merit and nomination by the entrance examiners following the entrance interviews.  Please note that all eligible applicants will be considered for all of these scholarships – no further application is required unless you are contacted by the Slade and specifically asked to do so.Graduate Taught entrants: Each year, we are delighted to be able to offer a number of generous MA/MFA studentships for UK/EU students as well as a selection of awards for International (non-EU) students.The Sarabande Foundation Scholarship award offers one fully funded MA/MFA studentship for a UK/EU student and will be bestowed on the basis of artistic merit, combined with demonstrated financial need.  Nominated candidates will be invited to apply specifically for this scholarship after the Entrance Examinations with successful applicants invited to a Sarabande Scholarship interview.The Artists Collecting Society prize is awarded on merit to an MA or MFA student entering the second year of study. The award is worth £3000.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Felix Slade Scholarships are entrance scholarships open to graduate Home and EU students. There are six awards available. The scholarship will cover £5000.00 towards the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA programme.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The Irving Wernick Scholarship is offered to an incoming Graduate 
student working primarily in portraiture or figuratively on entry to the
 School.  The award is worth £7000.00 in each year of the programme. The gift is in memory of a Slade alumnus, Irving Wernick. The Leonora Carrington Scholarship; the Eileen Gray Scholarship; the Yitzhak Danziger Scholarship. These awards are entrance scholarships open to Overseas students. Each award provides £5,000.00 towards the Overseas fees in each year of study of the MA or MFA programme. One award is available in each area (Fine Art Media, Painting and Sculpture).The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Siva-Finestone Scholarship is open to Home and EU students. The award is a partial fee award for the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA Fine Art programme. One award is available every two years, being awarded in odd-numbered years.The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000.The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in his or her final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award provides a free ACME studio for one year plus a bursary of up to £7,000 to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Barto Dos Santos Memorial Award of £5,000 is for outstanding achievement by a final year graduate student.The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.The Chadwell Award - graduating postgraduate students are to be offered the opportunity this year to apply to the Chadwell Award.  This annual competition for final year Fine Art postgraduates aims to provide a bridge between art school and professional practice by giving a recent graduate a free studio in Bow, East London for one year together with a bursary of £5000.  Different institutions are targeted each year and Slade students will benefit from the opportunity to be considered in 2015.The Chelsea Arts Club Special Projects Award of £2,000 is made annually to a continuing MA or MFA student to help them with the cost of their studies and materials in their final year. The Award also includes one year's membership of the Chelsea Arts Club. The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Land Securities Award provides a free studio space for one year and an exhibition to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Max Werner Drawing Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually to a final year graduate student who has demonstrated excellence in drawing.The Peter and Betty McLean Prize of £1,000 is awarded anually to a final year graduate student.The Slade is invited to nominate candidates for the annual Red Mansion Art Prize. The prize is a residency in China for a continuing graduate student.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement. A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Slade graduate students are invited to compete for one of six artist residencies in Hong Kong at the Academy of Visual Arts, Hong Kong Baptist University, China.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the Fees and Funding section above.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the section above. UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration,
 tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic 
year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual 
increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. 
Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and 
living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership which brings together three leading UK research organisations: University College London (UCL), King’s College, London (KCL) and the School of Advanced Study (SAS). The LAHP will be awarding up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study or University College London in 2017-18. These studentships, which normally cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU students. As well as funding for studentships and shared doctoral training, this will open up additional opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision for Slade students across these three leading research institutions. For further information, please see www.lahp.ac.uk.If you wish to be considered for a LAHP Studentship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities please see the following links:UCL Scholarships and FundingUCL Doctoral SchoolJoint Faculty Institute of Graduate StudiesApplicants must indicate on their UCL application form that they wish to apply for a UCL Scholarship. If you wish to be considered for a UCL Research Scholarship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding application. Many deadlines for scholarships fall early in the spring and you may need to apply for the October deadline.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.Jean Spencer and Malcolm Hughes Bursaries are available each year for MPhil/PhD students to enable them to further their research through projects, conferences, travel, or other research activities. The maximum size of any bursary is £500 and applications for smaller awards are encouraged. There are two deadlines per academic year and applications are considered at the Slade Doctoral Board.Other sources of funding for research including conference, travel and project funds can be found on the UCL Doctoral School web pages. Born in 1923 in Brooklyn, New York U.S.A., Irving was spotted drawing portraits in Washington Square and won a scholarship to the Brooklyn High School of Music and Art, from which he gained a university entrance diploma. From 1941 to 1943 he studied at the Art School of the National Academy of Design in Brooklyn before joining the U.S. Navy in which he served from 1943-46.  Following the war, he went on to Cornell University where he studied History of Greek, Roman and Renaissance Art. Travel to Florence to study at the Academy of Fine Arts followed and it was here that he met his wife, Doreen who was working there as a governess, hav­ing completed her own university education at Kings College London. They re­turned to London together to get married and Irving then studied at the Slade School of Fine Art from 1952-55 under Professor William Coldstream and John Aldridge A.R.A. FINA6606 Methodologies of Drawing is a module taught by the Slade which is available to students from other departments in UCL. Priority on the module is given to students taking the BASc Arts and Sciences degree and the BSc Architectural and Interdisciplinary Studies. Application to the module is by Portfolio Inspection. Students from other departments, and intercollegiate students may apply to take the module, but we cannot guarantee places on the module until after the Portfolio Inspections have taken place. All students are required to submit a portfolio of work at the start of the Autumn Term. Portfolios will be reviewed and places allocated following the portfolio inspection. All students wishing to take FINA6606 must submit a portfolio of work to the Slade Office by the deadline.Any students who enter FINA6606 on Portico and who do not submit a portfolio of work for inspection will be rejected from the module. We are not able to give feedback on individual portfolios. Portfolios may be delivered to the Slade Office from 18th September 2017 and must be delivered by 10am on 27th September 2017. Portfolios should be clearly labelled with your name; loose work should be individually named.Teaching will take place on Mondays at the Slade Research Centre on Woburn Square. Classes take place between 6.00pm and 8.30pm in Term 1. In Term 2, students work independently, developing their individual approaches to drawing. Students will receive two 30 minute one-to-one tutorials ahead of their submission of the final portfolio of work.The final assessed portfolio of work is due to be handed in at the Slade Office by 4.00pm on Friday, 27th April 2018.FINA6606 students do not have access to the Slade Workshops. A materials fee of £75 is payable by the student or the student’s home department.Students are expected to attend all of the classes.  Methodologies of Drawing examines a series of practises of drawing in Fine Art, emphasising the development of concepts of drawing. The intention is that students learn through practice and treat drawing as a mode of thinking, feeling and enquiry.The syllabus is divided into five sections, each taught over two sessions:The books below are recommendations, although they are not required reading for the course. Students are encouraged to visit museums and galleries where drawings are regularly shown. For further information, please contact slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk, with FINA6606 in the title of your e-mail.There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art. The Slade School of Fine Art is a world leading art school with a reputation for excellence. As part of UCL, London's Global University, the Slade provides an open and supportive environment for engagement with the process of art making at the highest level, attracting an international community of students. Students are supported to realize and strengthen their creative potential through experimentation, dialogue and fine art making in all its forms.There are around 110 full-time graduate students at the Slade studying 
on either the MA in Fine Art or the MFA in Fine Art. The MA is a 
24-month studio-based programme, which has a taught History and Theory 
of Art component. The MFA is an 18-month studio-based programme with a 
two part, written and oral, Critical Studies component. All students 
follow the same studio programme, working alongside each other in an 
open studio environment, electing to work in the Sculpture, Painting or 
Fine Art Media studios. There is lively cross over between all areas. Watch the video: Graduate students discuss their Slade experience.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.   The Graduate Painting area celebrates painting in all its diverse contemporary forms, and in its long tradition in western art and art of other cultures. Students engage in the practice of painting through a range of approaches, including panels and stretched canvas, wall painting, installation-based painting and painting determined by architectural contexts. Painting is also developed through experimentation with other art forms such as printmaking, photography, film and video, sound, performance and object making.  Drawing is a fundamental concern. Students are encouraged to explore painting at a high level by focusing on the connections between thinking, feeling, looking and making. An inquisitive, enquiring approach to craft is essential to the enrichment of the students’ intellectual and emotional understanding of the medium. Analysis and actualisation of the pleasure and beauty of painting in all its complexity is at the heart of the area. Discussion and debate fuel and sharpen the students’ critical awareness of the nature of painting within a contemporary art context and their ability to question the position of painting today.   Graduate Painting leads two current research projects: the Material Research Project, since 2010, and the Discourse Project, since 2014, both situated in the Methods Room within the Graduate Painting studios. The Graduate Sculpture area invites students working across a range of media to work within an environment of making, experimentation and ideas. It is a practical, studio based area investigating objects, placement, form, space and composite activities, seeking to explore what is distinctive about sculpture and finding out what is possible. The ethos of the course is to embrace a broad range of sculptural practices - from transitory spatial interventions with light, sound or text to the most solid, obstructive forms, such as working with stone, bronze, plaster and clay. The studios are a productive, active environment - space is seen as a shared, flexible resource and the forum for critical attention, debate and imaginative experimentation. Students are expected to work independently within the framework of the graduate programme and wider criticality and awareness of contemporary and historical discourse. Students in the Fine Art Media area pursue their creative ideas through a variety of media, which are supported by both academic and technical staff who hold a broad level of expertise. Currently there are students working with photography, film, video, performance, text, sound, installation, printmaking and all manner of object and image making.  There is no limit or expectation as to the media used in the Fine Art Media area. Although most graduate students in the School will have studied fine art, some may have come to fine art through studying other disciplines, for example music or literature. The wide range of creative activity and cultural experience of the students makes for a rich and diverse studio culture. The aim of the Fine Art Media area is to foster a strong sense of community and group responsibility within the studio, to create a vibrant and stimulating working atmosphere that is informed and critical yet supportive and to help students develop and trust their own judgement and creativity, encouraging independence of vision and thought. Students on the MFA and MA follow the same studio 
course and are based in one studio discipline: painting, sculpture or 
fine art media (which includes electronic media, photography, print, 
performance, sound, film and video). Both programmes are 
research-centred. The main difference between the MFA and the MA lies in
 the distinction between the critical studies in the MFA and the history and theory of art in the MA.  The
 teaching takes place through individual tutorials, small cross-area 
group tutorials made up of both first and second year students from each
 subject area, studio critiques and critical studies seminars, where 
students present their research interests and contextualise their work 
to their peer group. In addition there are 
opportunities to participate in research projects at the Slade Research 
Centre, Woburn Square. These week-long projects provide an opportunity 
to explore ideas alongside students who are based across all three 
areas, and to make work on a larger scale. In addition, a programme of 
visiting artists is arranged throughout the year. The first year
 incorporates a taught programme (delivered through lectures, seminars, 
tutorials and workshops) to upgrade theoretical and technical skills, 
but primarily demands a considerable degree of investigation and 
experimentation.  The second year 
prioritizes individual research (conducted under supervision), building 
on and consolidating the learning and experimentation of the first year,
 leading to original results by graduate students capable of organising 
and implementing an independent programme at this level. The course 
offers several opportunities for the presentation of work to the wider 
public and culminates in the final graduate exhibition. One
 of the Slade's great strengths is the wide range of facilities and 
expertise that it offers to students, regardless of their study area. In
 the School there is a strong commitment to the teaching of both 
traditional and emerging techniques, and analogue and digital 
technologies. These include film and video, analogue and digital 
photography, screen printing, etching, stone lithography and 
bookbinding, alongside continually updated digital resources supported 
by online tutorial learning.  There is a 
comprehensive workshop supporting woodwork, metal work, hot metal, 
ceramics, foundry work and casting, as well as access to laser cutting 
and CADCAM.  The painting studios house a Methods Room for canvas and 
paint preparation and investigation into pigments supported by the Materials Research Project.  Preliminary
 inductions to all the workshops within the Slade take place at the 
beginning of the year and are mandatory in order to use the facilities. 
Further sessions are available to teach new skills or build on existing 
skills, for instance specialist workshops on black and white and colour 
photography, 16mm film-making, photographic lighting, video editing, 
chroma key and the sound studio.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Ignacio Acosta, Mania Akbari and Douglas White, Jane Bustin, Matt Calderwood, Gillian Carnegie, Marcus Coates, Enrico David, Tom Debenham, Nicolas Deshayes, Mel Gooding, Brian Griffiths, Anne Hardy, Melanie Keen (Director, Iniva), Mark Leckey, Christina Mackie, Anthony Malinowski, Jeffrey Charles Henry Peacock, Eddie Peake, Heather Phillipson, Amalia Pica, Nicola Pozzani (Bespoke Perfumer at Floris, London, and Scent educator London College of Fashion and  Y-Institute, Bern University of Arts, Bern, Switzerland), Ruth Proctor, Prem Sahib, Alex Sainsbury (Director, Raven Row), Meekyoung Shin, John Smith (film-maker), Yonatan Vinitsky, Lynette Clarrie Wallis (Curator of Contemporary Art, Tate Britain and Tate Modern), Bruno Wolheim, Yiadom-Boakye, Toby Ziegler The
 History and Theory of Art programme of the MA involves both coursework 
and individual research. The taught component comprises a series of 
weekly seminars in the autumn and spring terms of the first year. The
 taught course work is assessed by means of termly essays that are 
essential for the development of study and writing skills and must be 
passed. The Research Report and assessed course work contribute 25% to 
the final degree award (10% in Year 1, 15% in Year 2) and studio work 
contributes 75%. The Research Report is meant to stand independently 
from studio work and is assessed separately. There may, and indeed 
should, be a connection with studio work, but this may be indirect. The 
topic should in some way be related to art, art history, art theory, 
aesthetics, visual theory, cultural studies or curating. During
 the first year students should attend a seminar programme extending 
over the course of the academic year which introduces them to a varied 
body of ideas and approaches, encourages them to consider the relations 
between theory and practice, and gives them the opportunity to gain 
extra experience in writing. It includes practical sessions on research 
and dissertation writing. These seminars provide students with the 
opportunity to participate in a stimulating and supportive environment 
for intellectual work. Students are expected to develop an approach to 
research and writing that is both inventive and rigorous. Students must 
pass this component of the programme on the basis of their attendance 
and essays.Part 1: a written paper that should consist of 3000 words, or equivalent (but not exclusively visual materials). Part 2:
 an oral presentation of twenty minutes' duration to the internal 
assessors and the student's peer group, followed by five minutes for 
questions. Students are expected to present their research orally and 
visually placing their studio work in a critical context. Critical
 Studies are a key component of the MFA programe and students must pass 
both parts in order to be awarded the MFA in Fine Art. Both parts should
 demonstrate the student's ability to develop, contextualize and 
articulate their research critically in preparation for professional 
practice. Each part is marked Pass/Fail. The 
evaluation of the Critical Studies Part 1 and 2 are subsumed into the 
final degree marking scheme.
    Applicants can take a tour of the Slade during the autumn term which includes a talk by the head of area and a tour of the studios and facilities. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.   The deadline for applications is 5 January 2018. All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online. Late applications will not be considered under any circumstances.   Applicants must complete the online form. All applicants should use the Supplementary Personal Statement section on the online application form to submit a study proposal outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements.All applicants must also upload the following supporting documentation:   When you have completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they view your portfolio. It is recommended that you complete the online application in advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.   All applicants must submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. The portfolio inspection takes place in late January.   Applicants are informed of the results of the portfolio inspection in writing.   It is our policy to invite all shortlisted applicants to interview and in 2018 these will take place in the week beginning 19 February. Interviews cannot be conducted at alternative times or by telephone or skype. If you are invited for interview but unable to attend, you must make sure your portfolio is at the Slade to be viewed by the examiners when final decisions are made. Indicate your availability for interview on the application form. Final decisions and offers of admission are made after the interview period is complete.   Applicants will be required to hold a first degree in Fine Art at second-class UK Honours level or above (or its overseas equivalent) and will be required to satisfy the School that they have an appropriate level of academic achievement. Exceptionally, an applicant with a first degree in a related subject (such as Art History) will be considered, but evidence of a high level of achievement in the chosen studio discipline will also be required.   Applicants will normally be of graduate standing. Exceptionally, an applicant may be considered whose previous education and professional experience are deemed by UCL to be equivalent to graduate level.   Applicants will normally be of degree standing. Students whose education has not been conducted in English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MA the Advanced level is required. For the MFA and Graduate Affiliate Study the Standard level is required.UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of approved English language courses. For all enquiries about either the
MA or MFA programme, please email us on slade.enquiries@ucl.ac.uk.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These include a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions, followed by a tour.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the School and spend some time at the event, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current graduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in June.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two graduate programmes, the two academic year MFA in Fine Art and the two calendar year MA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see above.All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online by 4 January. No, late applications will not be considered.MFA applicants should include a study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MFA applicants do not need to submit a separate Research Proposal or writing sample.Yes, submit your study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of your study and research on the programme, focusing in particular on your studio work. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MA applicants should also upload a Research Proposal (two A4 pages) containing a clear and succinct statement of your proposed area of theoretical research which includes a working title for your history and theory dissertation; the reason why you have chosen the subject; a summary of the knowledge you already have of the subject; the objectives for the research; what areas of study you think the research will involve; what methods you will employ in the research; what sources you will use for the research, i.e., libraries, museums etc, and a brief bibliography. MA applicants must also upload a recent piece of written work 2,500 - 3,000 words in length (upload this as the Additional Document). You should apply for either the MA or the MFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the MA/MFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the MA or MFA.If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see UCL's English Language Proficiency Requirement.The UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.Yes, you can. You will need to demonstrate that your experience and portfolio are of comparable quality to applicants who have studied Fine Art at undergraduate level. Your previous degree may be in a related discipline, e.g. architecture or art history, or you may have graduated some time ago but built a career as a practising artist independently. The strength and appropriateness of your portfolio, study proposal and cv will be crucial in determining whether or not your application is suitable. All applicants should Apply Online and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. All applicants will be able to check the progress of their application through the UCL Portal. You will create a username and password for the UCL Portal when you submit your online application.No. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work.If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the email giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. All applicants should check the UCL Portal regularly for updates on the status of their application. If you are successful, you will be able to view your offer letter via the UCL Portal. You should respond to the offer through the UCL Portal as soon as possible. Applicants who are unsuccessful will also receive confirmation via the UCL Portal.Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently taking, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform the UCL Admissions Office of their results as soon as they receive them.Deferrals are granted in exceptional circumstances. If you wish to defer your place, you must apply in writing (to the Academic Manager at the Slade) outlining the reasons. In most cases, we prefer candidates to reapply. This enables the examiners to view your most recent work.We have a number of small scholarships. Recipients are nominated during 
the summer by the Slade Scholarships and Prizes Committee. There is no 
application procedure, all students who have confirmed their place are 
considered and nominations are made primarily according to entrance 
examination performance and academic merit. See Fees and Funding.You are strongly advised to begin your search for funding opportunities as soon as possible as many deadlines are very early. In the past graduate students at the Slade have been successful in achieving funding from a range of organisations including the following: British Council, Association of Commonwealth Universities, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, IKY, Samstag Scholarship, SAAS, Pola Art Foundation, DAAD, Inlaks Foundation and Charles Wallace India Trust. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.  The Slade School of Fine Art is an art school
with an international outlook, part of UCL, London's global university. The
Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in which to
develop your doctoral research. We welcome applications from students with a
wide range of backgrounds, here in the UK and internationally. Our focus is on
subject areas within the Slade (painting, sculpture and fine art media) and on
interdisciplinary research between the Slade and disciplines offered by UCL. The
Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership. The LAHP annually awards up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts
and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study
or University College London in 2018/19. These studentships, which normally
cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU
students.The aims of the MPhil/PhD programme are to:    The Slade offers a choice between the
following three options within the PhD programme: The MPhil/PhD programme has strong links to
the taught programmes at the Slade and you will also have access to the
School-wide lecture and visiting artists’ programme. The Slade provides
excellent workshop and research facilities.  Current Slade research themes
include: painting, sculpture, fine-art media, materiality, word and image,
landscape and electronic media. As part of UCL we offer an extensive range
of research skill courses through UCL Doctoral School plus support from the Arts and Humanities Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate
Studies (JFIGS) and London Arts and Humanities Research Partnership (LAHP). In addition to
personal tutorials, students participate in: Students are
also expected to attend: In addition we would
expect our students to be active participants in exhibitions, performances,
events, conferences, and publishing both within and beyond UCL.   Head of the Doctoral Programme and
Co-ordinator of the written and practice-related options: Dr Sharon MorrisCo-ordinator of the practice-led option: Dr Hayley Newman (on sabbatical leave Autumn 2017) Your primary
supervisor will be a member of Slade staff, all of whom are practising artists or
scholars in the history and theory of art, with national and international
profiles.   Secondary
supervision is also available from renowned scholars and specialists throughout
UCL, including the sciences where appropriate. Second supervisors currently
include:












 Dr Chiara Ambrosio (Science and Technology Studies), Dr
Tim Beasley-Murray (School of Slavonic & East European Studies, Dr
Stephanie Bird (German), Dr Caroline Bressey (Geography), 












 Dr Victor Buchli (Anthropology),  Dr Ben Campkin (Bartlett School of
Architecture), Professor Susanne
Kord (German), Dr Petra Lange-Berndt (History of Art), Dr Miriam Leonard (Greek and Latin), 












 Prof Tamar Garb (History of Art), Professor Susanne
Kuechler (Anthropology),  Professor Timothy
Mathews (French), Dr Peg Rawes (Bartlett School of
Architecture), 












 Dr Ruth Siddall (Earth Sciences),  Dr Alison Wright (History of Art). There
are also opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision across the London Arts
and Humanities Partnership with staff in King’s College London and the School
of Advanced Studies. Recent and current
visitors to the MPhil/PhD Programme Michael Newman; Kristen Kreider; Howard Caygill; Fiona Sampson; Saradha Soobrayen.Outlines of current and archived MPhil and PhD Research are in theStudent Research section.     There are two application deadlines:   The first application deadline is 30 October 2017. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 5, 6 and 7 December 2017. If you wish to make an application for a LAHP or UCL Scholarship, you should apply for this deadline.   The second application deadline is 26 February 2018. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 24 April 2018.   Both application deadlines are for entry in September 2018.     Applicants can attend the MPhil/PhD Open Day, which will be held 10am – 1pm on Wednesday 4 October 2017. For details on how to book, see our tours booking page.     All applicants for MPhil/PhD and Graduate Affiliate Research should Apply Online. Course code: RRDFINSING01, Programme Title: Research Degree: Slade School.    Applicants must complete the online form and
upload the following supporting documentation:a piece of writing:The Slade does not require applicants to have approached supervisors in advance of making the application to study. However, Slade tutors’ profiles and research interests are listed on our people pages. It is strongly advised that applicants read our staff members’ profiles before submitting an application. If there is a member of staff with whom you would particularly like to work, you may name him or her on the application form; however, supervision by a specific tutor cannot be guaranteed at the application stage.     When you have
completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they
will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their
references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded
by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is
your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references
promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they review your
application. It is recommended that you complete the online application in
advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.If you are applying to take the practice-led or practice-related MPhil/PhD you will be invited to submit your portfolio online via Slideroom. You will need to submit up to fifteen images. Include the title of the work, date, dimensions and medium for each image. Videos and films should be presented as a showreel with a maximum duration of ten minutes. Submissions which do not follow these guidelines cannot be considered.Further details, and a link to the Slade’s Slideroom portfolio submission, will be sent to you once you have submitted the UCL MPhil/PhD application, including instructions for those applicants who do not wish to use SlideroomPlease note that Portfolio deadline for the autumn applicaiton round is 6th November 2017. Applicants who have applied by the 30th October deadline will be sent link to Slideroom.     Dr Sharon Morris Head of the Slade Doctoral Programme, and a small team of senior Slade staff meet to consider all applications and shortlist candidates on the basis of the quality of their studio work, their suitability for research, and the feasibility of their research proposal and its supervision. Shortlisted applicants will be interviewed by the co-ordinators plus the proposed supervisory team.       Successful applicants normally register in
September.      Applicants
will hold a good first degree and will normally be expected to have studied to
MA or MFA level.    All students whose first language is not English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MPhil/PhD the Advanced level is required.For admission enquiries please email Lou Adkin and Clare Meckled-Szembek.Due to the number of applicants we are unable to discuss who to nominate as a supervisor or to advise on proposals before you submit your application, however, you may add names to your application form and if shortlisted we will also suggest possible supervisors. Please look at the Slade website for staff research profiles.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries. There are two application deadlines. Please check the Admissions section above for these deadlines.Please note that if you are applying for a grant or scholarship, you should check the deadline in advance. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this will mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. See the UCL Scholarships and Funding page for further details. All applications are considered by a small team of senior Slade staff and shortlisted candidates are invited for interview. Interviews are conducted by the co-ordinators of the PhD programme plus the proposed supervisory team. Due to the high number of applications received, we are unable to offer feedback on your application or interview.Candidates are expected to begin their programme in September.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities see the following links:UCL Scholarships and Funding UCL Doctoral School Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding that you are applying for. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this may mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions. The Slade School of Fine Art is a world leading art school with a reputation for excellence. As part of UCL, London's Global University, the Slade provides an open and supportive environment for engagement with the process of art making at the highest level, attracting an international community of students. Students are supported to realize and strengthen their creative potential through experimentation, dialogue and fine art making in all its forms.There are around 110 full-time graduate students at the Slade studying 
on either the MA in Fine Art or the MFA in Fine Art. The MA is a 
24-month studio-based programme, which has a taught History and Theory 
of Art component. The MFA is an 18-month studio-based programme with a 
two part, written and oral, Critical Studies component. All students 
follow the same studio programme, working alongside each other in an 
open studio environment, electing to work in the Sculpture, Painting or 
Fine Art Media studios. There is lively cross over between all areas. Watch the video: Graduate students discuss their Slade experience.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.   The Graduate Painting area celebrates painting in all its diverse contemporary forms, and in its long tradition in western art and art of other cultures. Students engage in the practice of painting through a range of approaches, including panels and stretched canvas, wall painting, installation-based painting and painting determined by architectural contexts. Painting is also developed through experimentation with other art forms such as printmaking, photography, film and video, sound, performance and object making.  Drawing is a fundamental concern. Students are encouraged to explore painting at a high level by focusing on the connections between thinking, feeling, looking and making. An inquisitive, enquiring approach to craft is essential to the enrichment of the students’ intellectual and emotional understanding of the medium. Analysis and actualisation of the pleasure and beauty of painting in all its complexity is at the heart of the area. Discussion and debate fuel and sharpen the students’ critical awareness of the nature of painting within a contemporary art context and their ability to question the position of painting today.   Graduate Painting leads two current research projects: the Material Research Project, since 2010, and the Discourse Project, since 2014, both situated in the Methods Room within the Graduate Painting studios. The Graduate Sculpture area invites students working across a range of media to work within an environment of making, experimentation and ideas. It is a practical, studio based area investigating objects, placement, form, space and composite activities, seeking to explore what is distinctive about sculpture and finding out what is possible. The ethos of the course is to embrace a broad range of sculptural practices - from transitory spatial interventions with light, sound or text to the most solid, obstructive forms, such as working with stone, bronze, plaster and clay. The studios are a productive, active environment - space is seen as a shared, flexible resource and the forum for critical attention, debate and imaginative experimentation. Students are expected to work independently within the framework of the graduate programme and wider criticality and awareness of contemporary and historical discourse. Students in the Fine Art Media area pursue their creative ideas through a variety of media, which are supported by both academic and technical staff who hold a broad level of expertise. Currently there are students working with photography, film, video, performance, text, sound, installation, printmaking and all manner of object and image making.  There is no limit or expectation as to the media used in the Fine Art Media area. Although most graduate students in the School will have studied fine art, some may have come to fine art through studying other disciplines, for example music or literature. The wide range of creative activity and cultural experience of the students makes for a rich and diverse studio culture. The aim of the Fine Art Media area is to foster a strong sense of community and group responsibility within the studio, to create a vibrant and stimulating working atmosphere that is informed and critical yet supportive and to help students develop and trust their own judgement and creativity, encouraging independence of vision and thought. Students on the MFA and MA follow the same studio 
course and are based in one studio discipline: painting, sculpture or 
fine art media (which includes electronic media, photography, print, 
performance, sound, film and video). Both programmes are 
research-centred. The main difference between the MFA and the MA lies in
 the distinction between the critical studies in the MFA and the history and theory of art in the MA.  The
 teaching takes place through individual tutorials, small cross-area 
group tutorials made up of both first and second year students from each
 subject area, studio critiques and critical studies seminars, where 
students present their research interests and contextualise their work 
to their peer group. In addition there are 
opportunities to participate in research projects at the Slade Research 
Centre, Woburn Square. These week-long projects provide an opportunity 
to explore ideas alongside students who are based across all three 
areas, and to make work on a larger scale. In addition, a programme of 
visiting artists is arranged throughout the year. The first year
 incorporates a taught programme (delivered through lectures, seminars, 
tutorials and workshops) to upgrade theoretical and technical skills, 
but primarily demands a considerable degree of investigation and 
experimentation.  The second year 
prioritizes individual research (conducted under supervision), building 
on and consolidating the learning and experimentation of the first year,
 leading to original results by graduate students capable of organising 
and implementing an independent programme at this level. The course 
offers several opportunities for the presentation of work to the wider 
public and culminates in the final graduate exhibition. One
 of the Slade's great strengths is the wide range of facilities and 
expertise that it offers to students, regardless of their study area. In
 the School there is a strong commitment to the teaching of both 
traditional and emerging techniques, and analogue and digital 
technologies. These include film and video, analogue and digital 
photography, screen printing, etching, stone lithography and 
bookbinding, alongside continually updated digital resources supported 
by online tutorial learning.  There is a 
comprehensive workshop supporting woodwork, metal work, hot metal, 
ceramics, foundry work and casting, as well as access to laser cutting 
and CADCAM.  The painting studios house a Methods Room for canvas and 
paint preparation and investigation into pigments supported by the Materials Research Project.  Preliminary
 inductions to all the workshops within the Slade take place at the 
beginning of the year and are mandatory in order to use the facilities. 
Further sessions are available to teach new skills or build on existing 
skills, for instance specialist workshops on black and white and colour 
photography, 16mm film-making, photographic lighting, video editing, 
chroma key and the sound studio.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Ignacio Acosta, Mania Akbari and Douglas White, Jane Bustin, Matt Calderwood, Gillian Carnegie, Marcus Coates, Enrico David, Tom Debenham, Nicolas Deshayes, Mel Gooding, Brian Griffiths, Anne Hardy, Melanie Keen (Director, Iniva), Mark Leckey, Christina Mackie, Anthony Malinowski, Jeffrey Charles Henry Peacock, Eddie Peake, Heather Phillipson, Amalia Pica, Nicola Pozzani (Bespoke Perfumer at Floris, London, and Scent educator London College of Fashion and  Y-Institute, Bern University of Arts, Bern, Switzerland), Ruth Proctor, Prem Sahib, Alex Sainsbury (Director, Raven Row), Meekyoung Shin, John Smith (film-maker), Yonatan Vinitsky, Lynette Clarrie Wallis (Curator of Contemporary Art, Tate Britain and Tate Modern), Bruno Wolheim, Yiadom-Boakye, Toby Ziegler The
 History and Theory of Art programme of the MA involves both coursework 
and individual research. The taught component comprises a series of 
weekly seminars in the autumn and spring terms of the first year. The
 taught course work is assessed by means of termly essays that are 
essential for the development of study and writing skills and must be 
passed. The Research Report and assessed course work contribute 25% to 
the final degree award (10% in Year 1, 15% in Year 2) and studio work 
contributes 75%. The Research Report is meant to stand independently 
from studio work and is assessed separately. There may, and indeed 
should, be a connection with studio work, but this may be indirect. The 
topic should in some way be related to art, art history, art theory, 
aesthetics, visual theory, cultural studies or curating. During
 the first year students should attend a seminar programme extending 
over the course of the academic year which introduces them to a varied 
body of ideas and approaches, encourages them to consider the relations 
between theory and practice, and gives them the opportunity to gain 
extra experience in writing. It includes practical sessions on research 
and dissertation writing. These seminars provide students with the 
opportunity to participate in a stimulating and supportive environment 
for intellectual work. Students are expected to develop an approach to 
research and writing that is both inventive and rigorous. Students must 
pass this component of the programme on the basis of their attendance 
and essays.Part 1: a written paper that should consist of 3000 words, or equivalent (but not exclusively visual materials). Part 2:
 an oral presentation of twenty minutes' duration to the internal 
assessors and the student's peer group, followed by five minutes for 
questions. Students are expected to present their research orally and 
visually placing their studio work in a critical context. Critical
 Studies are a key component of the MFA programe and students must pass 
both parts in order to be awarded the MFA in Fine Art. Both parts should
 demonstrate the student's ability to develop, contextualize and 
articulate their research critically in preparation for professional 
practice. Each part is marked Pass/Fail. The 
evaluation of the Critical Studies Part 1 and 2 are subsumed into the 
final degree marking scheme.
    Applicants can take a tour of the Slade during the autumn term which includes a talk by the head of area and a tour of the studios and facilities. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.   The deadline for applications is 5 January 2018. All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online. Late applications will not be considered under any circumstances.   Applicants must complete the online form. All applicants should use the Supplementary Personal Statement section on the online application form to submit a study proposal outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements.All applicants must also upload the following supporting documentation:   When you have completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they view your portfolio. It is recommended that you complete the online application in advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.   All applicants must submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. The portfolio inspection takes place in late January.   Applicants are informed of the results of the portfolio inspection in writing.   It is our policy to invite all shortlisted applicants to interview and in 2018 these will take place in the week beginning 19 February. Interviews cannot be conducted at alternative times or by telephone or skype. If you are invited for interview but unable to attend, you must make sure your portfolio is at the Slade to be viewed by the examiners when final decisions are made. Indicate your availability for interview on the application form. Final decisions and offers of admission are made after the interview period is complete.   Applicants will be required to hold a first degree in Fine Art at second-class UK Honours level or above (or its overseas equivalent) and will be required to satisfy the School that they have an appropriate level of academic achievement. Exceptionally, an applicant with a first degree in a related subject (such as Art History) will be considered, but evidence of a high level of achievement in the chosen studio discipline will also be required.   Applicants will normally be of graduate standing. Exceptionally, an applicant may be considered whose previous education and professional experience are deemed by UCL to be equivalent to graduate level.   Applicants will normally be of degree standing. Students whose education has not been conducted in English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MA the Advanced level is required. For the MFA and Graduate Affiliate Study the Standard level is required.UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of approved English language courses. For all enquiries about either the
MA or MFA programme, please email us on slade.enquiries@ucl.ac.uk.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These include a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions, followed by a tour.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the School and spend some time at the event, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current graduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in June.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two graduate programmes, the two academic year MFA in Fine Art and the two calendar year MA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see above.All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online by 4 January. No, late applications will not be considered.MFA applicants should include a study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MFA applicants do not need to submit a separate Research Proposal or writing sample.Yes, submit your study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of your study and research on the programme, focusing in particular on your studio work. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MA applicants should also upload a Research Proposal (two A4 pages) containing a clear and succinct statement of your proposed area of theoretical research which includes a working title for your history and theory dissertation; the reason why you have chosen the subject; a summary of the knowledge you already have of the subject; the objectives for the research; what areas of study you think the research will involve; what methods you will employ in the research; what sources you will use for the research, i.e., libraries, museums etc, and a brief bibliography. MA applicants must also upload a recent piece of written work 2,500 - 3,000 words in length (upload this as the Additional Document). You should apply for either the MA or the MFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the MA/MFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the MA or MFA.If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see UCL's English Language Proficiency Requirement.The UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.Yes, you can. You will need to demonstrate that your experience and portfolio are of comparable quality to applicants who have studied Fine Art at undergraduate level. Your previous degree may be in a related discipline, e.g. architecture or art history, or you may have graduated some time ago but built a career as a practising artist independently. The strength and appropriateness of your portfolio, study proposal and cv will be crucial in determining whether or not your application is suitable. All applicants should Apply Online and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. All applicants will be able to check the progress of their application through the UCL Portal. You will create a username and password for the UCL Portal when you submit your online application.No. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work.If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the email giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. All applicants should check the UCL Portal regularly for updates on the status of their application. If you are successful, you will be able to view your offer letter via the UCL Portal. You should respond to the offer through the UCL Portal as soon as possible. Applicants who are unsuccessful will also receive confirmation via the UCL Portal.Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently taking, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform the UCL Admissions Office of their results as soon as they receive them.Deferrals are granted in exceptional circumstances. If you wish to defer your place, you must apply in writing (to the Academic Manager at the Slade) outlining the reasons. In most cases, we prefer candidates to reapply. This enables the examiners to view your most recent work.We have a number of small scholarships. Recipients are nominated during 
the summer by the Slade Scholarships and Prizes Committee. There is no 
application procedure, all students who have confirmed their place are 
considered and nominations are made primarily according to entrance 
examination performance and academic merit. See Fees and Funding.You are strongly advised to begin your search for funding opportunities as soon as possible as many deadlines are very early. In the past graduate students at the Slade have been successful in achieving funding from a range of organisations including the following: British Council, Association of Commonwealth Universities, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, IKY, Samstag Scholarship, SAAS, Pola Art Foundation, DAAD, Inlaks Foundation and Charles Wallace India Trust. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
  The Slade School of Fine Art is an art school
with an international outlook, part of UCL, London's global university. The
Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in which to
develop your doctoral research. We welcome applications from students with a
wide range of backgrounds, here in the UK and internationally. Our focus is on
subject areas within the Slade (painting, sculpture and fine art media) and on
interdisciplinary research between the Slade and disciplines offered by UCL. The
Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership. The LAHP annually awards up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts
and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study
or University College London in 2018/19. These studentships, which normally
cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU
students.The aims of the MPhil/PhD programme are to:    The Slade offers a choice between the
following three options within the PhD programme: The MPhil/PhD programme has strong links to
the taught programmes at the Slade and you will also have access to the
School-wide lecture and visiting artists’ programme. The Slade provides
excellent workshop and research facilities.  Current Slade research themes
include: painting, sculpture, fine-art media, materiality, word and image,
landscape and electronic media. As part of UCL we offer an extensive range
of research skill courses through UCL Doctoral School plus support from the Arts and Humanities Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate
Studies (JFIGS) and London Arts and Humanities Research Partnership (LAHP). In addition to
personal tutorials, students participate in: Students are
also expected to attend: In addition we would
expect our students to be active participants in exhibitions, performances,
events, conferences, and publishing both within and beyond UCL.   Head of the Doctoral Programme and
Co-ordinator of the written and practice-related options: Dr Sharon MorrisCo-ordinator of the practice-led option: Dr Hayley Newman (on sabbatical leave Autumn 2017) Your primary
supervisor will be a member of Slade staff, all of whom are practising artists or
scholars in the history and theory of art, with national and international
profiles.   Secondary
supervision is also available from renowned scholars and specialists throughout
UCL, including the sciences where appropriate. Second supervisors currently
include:












 Dr Chiara Ambrosio (Science and Technology Studies), Dr
Tim Beasley-Murray (School of Slavonic & East European Studies, Dr
Stephanie Bird (German), Dr Caroline Bressey (Geography), 












 Dr Victor Buchli (Anthropology),  Dr Ben Campkin (Bartlett School of
Architecture), Professor Susanne
Kord (German), Dr Petra Lange-Berndt (History of Art), Dr Miriam Leonard (Greek and Latin), 












 Prof Tamar Garb (History of Art), Professor Susanne
Kuechler (Anthropology),  Professor Timothy
Mathews (French), Dr Peg Rawes (Bartlett School of
Architecture), 












 Dr Ruth Siddall (Earth Sciences),  Dr Alison Wright (History of Art). There
are also opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision across the London Arts
and Humanities Partnership with staff in King’s College London and the School
of Advanced Studies. Recent and current
visitors to the MPhil/PhD Programme Michael Newman; Kristen Kreider; Howard Caygill; Fiona Sampson; Saradha Soobrayen.Outlines of current and archived MPhil and PhD Research are in theStudent Research section.     There are two application deadlines:   The first application deadline is 30 October 2017. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 5, 6 and 7 December 2017. If you wish to make an application for a LAHP or UCL Scholarship, you should apply for this deadline.   The second application deadline is 26 February 2018. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 24 April 2018.   Both application deadlines are for entry in September 2018.     Applicants can attend the MPhil/PhD Open Day, which will be held 10am – 1pm on Wednesday 4 October 2017. For details on how to book, see our tours booking page.     All applicants for MPhil/PhD and Graduate Affiliate Research should Apply Online. Course code: RRDFINSING01, Programme Title: Research Degree: Slade School.    Applicants must complete the online form and
upload the following supporting documentation:a piece of writing:The Slade does not require applicants to have approached supervisors in advance of making the application to study. However, Slade tutors’ profiles and research interests are listed on our people pages. It is strongly advised that applicants read our staff members’ profiles before submitting an application. If there is a member of staff with whom you would particularly like to work, you may name him or her on the application form; however, supervision by a specific tutor cannot be guaranteed at the application stage.     When you have
completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they
will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their
references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded
by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is
your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references
promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they review your
application. It is recommended that you complete the online application in
advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.If you are applying to take the practice-led or practice-related MPhil/PhD you will be invited to submit your portfolio online via Slideroom. You will need to submit up to fifteen images. Include the title of the work, date, dimensions and medium for each image. Videos and films should be presented as a showreel with a maximum duration of ten minutes. Submissions which do not follow these guidelines cannot be considered.Further details, and a link to the Slade’s Slideroom portfolio submission, will be sent to you once you have submitted the UCL MPhil/PhD application, including instructions for those applicants who do not wish to use SlideroomPlease note that Portfolio deadline for the autumn applicaiton round is 6th November 2017. Applicants who have applied by the 30th October deadline will be sent link to Slideroom.     Dr Sharon Morris Head of the Slade Doctoral Programme, and a small team of senior Slade staff meet to consider all applications and shortlist candidates on the basis of the quality of their studio work, their suitability for research, and the feasibility of their research proposal and its supervision. Shortlisted applicants will be interviewed by the co-ordinators plus the proposed supervisory team.       Successful applicants normally register in
September.      Applicants
will hold a good first degree and will normally be expected to have studied to
MA or MFA level.    All students whose first language is not English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MPhil/PhD the Advanced level is required.For admission enquiries please email Lou Adkin and Clare Meckled-Szembek.Due to the number of applicants we are unable to discuss who to nominate as a supervisor or to advise on proposals before you submit your application, however, you may add names to your application form and if shortlisted we will also suggest possible supervisors. Please look at the Slade website for staff research profiles.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries. There are two application deadlines. Please check the Admissions section above for these deadlines.Please note that if you are applying for a grant or scholarship, you should check the deadline in advance. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this will mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. See the UCL Scholarships and Funding page for further details. All applications are considered by a small team of senior Slade staff and shortlisted candidates are invited for interview. Interviews are conducted by the co-ordinators of the PhD programme plus the proposed supervisory team. Due to the high number of applications received, we are unable to offer feedback on your application or interview.Candidates are expected to begin their programme in September.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities see the following links:UCL Scholarships and Funding UCL Doctoral School Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding that you are applying for. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this may mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions.The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter.Easter courses are taught by practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own practise after completing the course. There is a lively, creative dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithShort Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. The Life Painting course fee
includes a £5 levy which covers a supply of supports and grounds for studies
but not your final canvas. You must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 oremail sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith Evening courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The fees for the Drawing and Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for supports and grounds (paper, canvas boards) and some wet materials and painting mediums. You will be sent a materials list with your course letter which outlines the materials we supply, and you must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra SmithEaster courses are taught by practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own practise after completing the course. There is a lively, creative dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithShort Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. The Life Painting course fee
includes a £5 levy which covers a supply of supports and grounds for studies
but not your final canvas. You must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 oremail sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Evening courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The fees for the Drawing and Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for supports and grounds (paper, canvas boards) and some wet materials and painting mediums. You will be sent a materials list with your course letter which outlines the materials we supply, and you must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Saturday courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.If you would like to be added to our mailing list, please 
contact sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. Who should take this course? This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithThis course is designed to extend your core skills in drawing towards composing paintings. It is structured to provide students with a series of practical strategies that help you to translate your own ideas and imagery into painted compositions. We begin with exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at objects and their qualities. These drawings are then translated from tone and line into colour, from one surface and scale to another, enriched by the introduction of secondary sources and composed by organising the pictorial space. Students will learn to extrapolate subject matter from their own preparatory material such as sketches, photographic documentation, objects and text. Who should take this course? This course suits beginners, or those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting, as well as students who have learnt first principles on the Autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting and wish to develop work towards their own ideas.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: HB and 2B pencils, charcoal, India rubber, Masking tape, Sketchbook (recommended). A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre yellow ochre. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith This course gives students the
opportunity to explore core drawing skills. We will use drawing as a means of
articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore
and nurture ideas through drawing and as inspiration for their own art
practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual
enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The five
sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line,
composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective.
Students will also have the opportunity to draw from a life model in the third session. They will
experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink,
white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage
with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring
the following materials for the first session: Range of pencils 2h –
6b

Erasers (putty and tablet)

1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped pen

Lightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)

Masking tape

Knife/Pencil sharpener
 Sketchbook (recommended) We will provide
paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow
charcoal.
 
 N.B. You
will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been
confirmed.Course
Tutors Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith  This course offers students the
opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to
look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression
and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the
starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human
figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the
course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of
representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within
the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions
will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning
the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition.
The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can
work with oils or acrylic.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.    You will need to bring the following materials: Masking tape

Paints (oils or acrylics) 

Odourless thinners (for oil paints)

Retarding medium (for acrylic paints)

Brushes

Palette knives

Screw Top Jar

Rags or kitchen roll

Sketchbook (recommended)
  We will provide easels, palettes, primer,
gum strip, oil painting paper, painting mediums, supports (wooden panels,
canvas boards and canvasses) and white spirit.
 
  N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking
has been confirmed.   Course Tutors Daniel PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith  Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.  The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. You must supply all other materials yourself.  Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course.  Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins.  Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.    The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time.  Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby.  Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.   Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.  The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.uk This unique artist led course provides an innovative platform across one week for students to expand their experience of creative ways to develop photography. It questions the limits and definition of Photography. It offers a sustained period of time experimenting with work in darkrooms and alternative spaces. These experiments are supported and informed by slide talks, seminars and the sharing of research. The aim is to encourage fresh and individual experiments of student’s ideas. We welcome artists, photographers, scientists and any one who has a creative interest in the medium. ‘The Larder and the Banquet’ as an extension of (Part.1) ‘The Kitchen and the Table’ is a workshop based in an exploration of mediums, resources and concepts. Part.2 is a production week where you implement your ideas.  You can also attend Part.2 independently by sending a brief portfolio (max. 10 images) of your work and a motivation letter (max. 300 words). The motivation letter should explain your interests and describe the work you want to develop (demonstrate your work mediums). The spirit of enquiry fostered in this new course grew out of an significant body of research developed by Alfonso Borragán in collaboration with Esther Llorca and made manifest in a series of workshops conducted over the last six years with a wide number of students. It seeks to re-address the speculative origins of photography in order to discuss and experiment with the future possibilities of the medium.  This workshop is an immersive collective research space for students to develop their practice. This ‘creative laboratory’ provides support to experiment and research in order to stretch the limits of your work. From day 1 and throughout the week, the workshop will be driven by your personal investigation, underpinned by group discussions and tutorials. The aim is that this combination of practical research with critical debate will amplify and deepen your interests, techniques and a conceptual framework within the medium.  The workshop will be developed between the darkroom, the studio and outdoors. The school will provide basic materials and chemicals for alternative processes, but if you want to work with a very specific medium you will need to bring your own materials. A notable contribution to the workshops and seminars on this course is that they take place within the interdisciplinary context of UCL, enabling contact with and visits to relevant specialised scientific departments. The nature of Photography is confined by narrow, formalised definitions. Photography developed quickly into a visual representational system to copy reality and endure memory. From the ‘Albumen Prints’ to the ‘Daguerreotypes’, photography became a chemical conquest of mechanical reproduction systems. Furthermore it became a race against time, where cameras and photosensitive emulsions become fast apparatuses to capture small fragments of time. In this process the loss of the Camera Lucida and latent images, such as Anthotypes, are clear examples of the limitations. This modern dream disregards in its development every technique or technology that is not useful for its intentions. The complexity and linearity of the history of Photography shows once again the loss of the ‘non-productive’ mediums. The materiality of photography resides in its capacity to capture light. Here we can consider not only visible light, but also the Physics of light that refers to the electromagnetic radiation of any wavelength. This expands the material idea of photography and the understanding of the image. Thus, it transforms physical and conceptual qualities of photography to a record of traces. The flat surface becomes a deep surface with different layers exposed to forensic readings.  Here we can consider a ‘proto-photography’ that explores all these forgotten technologies and creates new ones to situate them in the future. We will examine the potentiality of the medium as an experimentation tool in itself. To understand photography as a representational tool, we need to re-consider photography as a material. This workshop aims to open a discussion and apply this to producing work that addresses an expanded understanding of photography. Through darkroom processes, with chemicals, light and as many materials as we can consider for experimentation, followed by a carefully supported look at the results, we will discover possibilities for new ideas and new works. The aim is that the participants will develop a body of work or series of experiments that can serve starting as a point for future projects. The work produced during this week would be suitable for students who want to put together a portfolio for application for further study of Fine Art photography. For artists, scientists and photographers who wish to use this forum as an intense, supportive experience to question both intellectually and physically the nature of the medium, the course will result in a concrete body of work to reference and build upon for continued individual experimentation.  Alfonso Borragán has been investigating along edges of photography for the last 15 years. His work can be interpreted as the development and tracking of an irreproducible experience. As a photographer he considers the experience non-transferable. The work uses supports able to decay, organic materials that are liable to change their grammar and mutate the work to new experiences again and again. Hence, he understands photography as a mutable and flexible surface. During this time he has been leading numerous experimental workshops as Light Hunters in Hangar Barcelona, Nomadic Food at Plataforma Bogotá or Expanded Photosensibility at London College of Communication.  1. Check www.alfonsoborragan.com for further information.2. Please contact Alfonso with some images of your work, and to discuss details regarding your experience of photography and suitability for Part 2 of this course. If you are planning to bring in any potentially hazardous materials, please also discuss this first with your tutor.3. Albumen prints were the first commercially exploitable method of producing a photographic print on a paper base from a negative and the dominant form of photographic positives in the mid 19th century. The invention was published in 1847 by Louis Désiré Blanquart-Evrard. This emulsion uses the albumen found in egg whites, salt and silver. 4. Daguerrotype was probably the most prolific photographic process in the 19th. However it was a very expensive and complex process, around 1870 it was replaced by cheaper and reproducible processes. It was invented by Louis Jaques-Mandé Daguerre and introduced worldwide in 1839. Each daguerreotype is a unique positive image on a silvered copper plate mirror-like surface. The daguerreotype is one of the most accurate, detailed and sharp photographic images even produced.  5. Anthotype is probably the first intuitive photographic process. However it was not named and published until 1842 by Sir John Herschel. It produces photographic images by using photosensitive material, as chlorophyll and anthocyanin, from plants.  Saturday courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.If you would like to be added to our mailing list, please 
contact sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. Who should take this course? This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithThis course is designed to extend your core skills in drawing towards composing paintings. It is structured to provide students with a series of practical strategies that help you to translate your own ideas and imagery into painted compositions. We begin with exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at objects and their qualities. These drawings are then translated from tone and line into colour, from one surface and scale to another, enriched by the introduction of secondary sources and composed by organising the pictorial space. Students will learn to extrapolate subject matter from their own preparatory material such as sketches, photographic documentation, objects and text. Who should take this course? This course suits beginners, or those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting, as well as students who have learnt first principles on the Autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting and wish to develop work towards their own ideas.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: HB and 2B pencils, charcoal, India rubber, Masking tape, Sketchbook (recommended). A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre yellow ochre. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith This course gives students the
opportunity to explore core drawing skills. We will use drawing as a means of
articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore
and nurture ideas through drawing and as inspiration for their own art
practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual
enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The five
sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line,
composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective.
Students will also have the opportunity to draw from a life model in the third session. They will
experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink,
white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage
with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring
the following materials for the first session: Range of pencils 2h –
6b

Erasers (putty and tablet)

1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped pen

Lightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)

Masking tape

Knife/Pencil sharpener
 Sketchbook (recommended) We will provide
paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow
charcoal.
 
 N.B. You
will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been
confirmed.Course
Tutors Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith  This course offers students the
opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to
look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression
and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the
starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human
figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the
course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of
representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within
the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions
will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning
the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition.
The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can
work with oils or acrylic.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.    You will need to bring the following materials: Masking tape

Paints (oils or acrylics) 

Odourless thinners (for oil paints)

Retarding medium (for acrylic paints)

Brushes

Palette knives

Screw Top Jar

Rags or kitchen roll

Sketchbook (recommended)
  We will provide easels, palettes, primer,
gum strip, oil painting paper, painting mediums, supports (wooden panels,
canvas boards and canvasses) and white spirit.
 
  N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking
has been confirmed.   Course Tutors Daniel PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith  Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.  The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. You must supply all other materials yourself.  Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course.  Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins.  Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.    The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time.  Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby.  Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.   Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.  The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.uk.
There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions.The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.ukSlade School of Fine Art
        Degree shows 2002Undergraduate
        Postgraduate
        
     
					MA/MFA Show is open to the public on 6-7 and 10-12 June from 10am-8pm and 8-9 June 2013 from 10am-5pm.
				The Slade offers two undergraduate programmes, the BA and the BFA in Fine Art; two Masters programmes, the MA and MFA in Fine Art; the MPhil/PhD in Fine Art, plus affiliate student programmes at all levels. An experimental research-oriented approach is at the heart of a studio-centred teaching environment, with each student - from BA/BFA through to PhD - expected to conduct individual and original research from day one.We
provide studio-centred teaching on our three year  BFA and four year BA.  At Graduate level we offer two
studio-based, research-centred programmes in Fine Art. A two calendar-year MA and a two academic-year MFA.The Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in
which to develop your doctoral research. We
have undergraduate exchange agreements with schools in the United States,
Europe, Israel and China and provide opportunities to international students at all levels for affiliate study.There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions.James was always passionate about abstract expressionist art and had an affinity for the Slade after studying here on the Slade Summer School Foundation course in 2010. In 2011 when James was 23 he had an epileptic brain seizure and passed away peacefully. ‘Life is like rain, falling down onto a tree, then running down the trunk into a stream and evaporating back into the sky.’The James Lewis Foundation Scholarship has been established in memory of James Lewis by his family. The Lewis family has generously renewed the scholarship, which was first awarded in 2012, in 2017 for a further five years. The Scholarship will be awarded to a UK student commencing the BA or BFA in Fine Art at the Slade. The recipient will receive the sum of £4,500 for each year of their programme of study, towards the cost of their fees, subject to satisfactory progress. The Scholarship will be awarded by staff of the Slade School, principally for excellence, with an assessment of financial hardship being taken into account.  This information should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Slade Scholarships are awarded by nomination.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Grocers' Company Queen's Golden Jubilee Scholarship is open to UK nationals entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School in alternate years. The value of the scholarship is around £2,000 per year, for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory academic progress. Awards are made every four years, beginning in 2018.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The James Lewis Foundation Scholarship is an entrance scholarship in memory of James Lewis, for a UK national entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School. The value of the scholarship is £4,500 per year for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress.The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Painters’ Company Scholarship is open to undergraduate students, normally UK nationals, specialising in painting or drawing entering the second year of their programme. The value of the scholarship is £5,000 per year for the remaining years of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress. The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.BursariesEach year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000. The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in their final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.  The Clare Winsten Memorial Award is for a Slade graduate or graduating female UK student to enable them to develop their creative talents. One or two awards of £10,000 are available each year.The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Michael Farrell Memorial Prize is awarded in memory of Mick Farrell, a photography technician at the Slade (2003-2015). His artistic practice negotiated the relationship between photography and sculpture, and developed an experimental approach to process and object. His explorations led him to developing pin hole camera techniques where he eventually worked closely with colleague Cliff Haines to construct the Straw Camera which gives a unique physical presence to the photograph. £600 is awarded annually to a final year undergraduate student in Fine Art for excellence and innovation in photography and its relationship with form, image and process.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement.A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The following Scholarships are awarded by the Slade on the basis of merit and nomination by the entrance examiners following the entrance interviews.  Please note that all eligible applicants will be considered for all of these scholarships – no further application is required unless you are contacted by the Slade and specifically asked to do so.Graduate Taught entrants: Each year, we are delighted to be able to offer a number of generous MA/MFA studentships for UK/EU students as well as a selection of awards for International (non-EU) students.The Sarabande Foundation Scholarship award offers one fully funded MA/MFA studentship for a UK/EU student and will be bestowed on the basis of artistic merit, combined with demonstrated financial need.  Nominated candidates will be invited to apply specifically for this scholarship after the Entrance Examinations with successful applicants invited to a Sarabande Scholarship interview.The Artists Collecting Society prize is awarded on merit to an MA or MFA student entering the second year of study. The award is worth £3000.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Felix Slade Scholarships are entrance scholarships open to graduate Home and EU students. There are six awards available. The scholarship will cover £5000.00 towards the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA programme.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The Irving Wernick Scholarship is offered to an incoming Graduate 
student working primarily in portraiture or figuratively on entry to the
 School.  The award is worth £7000.00 in each year of the programme. The gift is in memory of a Slade alumnus, Irving Wernick. The Leonora Carrington Scholarship; the Eileen Gray Scholarship; the Yitzhak Danziger Scholarship. These awards are entrance scholarships open to Overseas students. Each award provides £5,000.00 towards the Overseas fees in each year of study of the MA or MFA programme. One award is available in each area (Fine Art Media, Painting and Sculpture).The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Siva-Finestone Scholarship is open to Home and EU students. The award is a partial fee award for the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA Fine Art programme. One award is available every two years, being awarded in odd-numbered years.The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000.The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in his or her final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award provides a free ACME studio for one year plus a bursary of up to £7,000 to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Barto Dos Santos Memorial Award of £5,000 is for outstanding achievement by a final year graduate student.The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.The Chadwell Award - graduating postgraduate students are to be offered the opportunity this year to apply to the Chadwell Award.  This annual competition for final year Fine Art postgraduates aims to provide a bridge between art school and professional practice by giving a recent graduate a free studio in Bow, East London for one year together with a bursary of £5000.  Different institutions are targeted each year and Slade students will benefit from the opportunity to be considered in 2015.The Chelsea Arts Club Special Projects Award of £2,000 is made annually to a continuing MA or MFA student to help them with the cost of their studies and materials in their final year. The Award also includes one year's membership of the Chelsea Arts Club. The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Land Securities Award provides a free studio space for one year and an exhibition to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Max Werner Drawing Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually to a final year graduate student who has demonstrated excellence in drawing.The Peter and Betty McLean Prize of £1,000 is awarded anually to a final year graduate student.The Slade is invited to nominate candidates for the annual Red Mansion Art Prize. The prize is a residency in China for a continuing graduate student.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement. A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Slade graduate students are invited to compete for one of six artist residencies in Hong Kong at the Academy of Visual Arts, Hong Kong Baptist University, China.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the Fees and Funding section above.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the section above. UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration,
 tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic 
year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual 
increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. 
Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and 
living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership which brings together three leading UK research organisations: University College London (UCL), King’s College, London (KCL) and the School of Advanced Study (SAS). The LAHP will be awarding up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study or University College London in 2017-18. These studentships, which normally cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU students. As well as funding for studentships and shared doctoral training, this will open up additional opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision for Slade students across these three leading research institutions. For further information, please see www.lahp.ac.uk.If you wish to be considered for a LAHP Studentship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities please see the following links:UCL Scholarships and FundingUCL Doctoral SchoolJoint Faculty Institute of Graduate StudiesApplicants must indicate on their UCL application form that they wish to apply for a UCL Scholarship. If you wish to be considered for a UCL Research Scholarship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding application. Many deadlines for scholarships fall early in the spring and you may need to apply for the October deadline.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.Jean Spencer and Malcolm Hughes Bursaries are available each year for MPhil/PhD students to enable them to further their research through projects, conferences, travel, or other research activities. The maximum size of any bursary is £500 and applications for smaller awards are encouraged. There are two deadlines per academic year and applications are considered at the Slade Doctoral Board.Other sources of funding for research including conference, travel and project funds can be found on the UCL Doctoral School web pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Slade Scholarships are awarded by nomination.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Grocers' Company Queen's Golden Jubilee Scholarship is open to UK nationals entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School in alternate years. The value of the scholarship is around £2,000 per year, for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory academic progress. Awards are made every four years, beginning in 2018.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The James Lewis Foundation Scholarship is an entrance scholarship in memory of James Lewis, for a UK national entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School. The value of the scholarship is £4,500 per year for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress.The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Painters’ Company Scholarship is open to undergraduate students, normally UK nationals, specialising in painting or drawing entering the second year of their programme. The value of the scholarship is £5,000 per year for the remaining years of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress. The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.BursariesEach year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000. The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in their final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.  The Clare Winsten Memorial Award is for a Slade graduate or graduating female UK student to enable them to develop their creative talents. One or two awards of £10,000 are available each year.The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Michael Farrell Memorial Prize is awarded in memory of Mick Farrell, a photography technician at the Slade (2003-2015). His artistic practice negotiated the relationship between photography and sculpture, and developed an experimental approach to process and object. His explorations led him to developing pin hole camera techniques where he eventually worked closely with colleague Cliff Haines to construct the Straw Camera which gives a unique physical presence to the photograph. £600 is awarded annually to a final year undergraduate student in Fine Art for excellence and innovation in photography and its relationship with form, image and process.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement.A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The following Scholarships are awarded by the Slade on the basis of merit and nomination by the entrance examiners following the entrance interviews.  Please note that all eligible applicants will be considered for all of these scholarships – no further application is required unless you are contacted by the Slade and specifically asked to do so.Graduate Taught entrants: Each year, we are delighted to be able to offer a number of generous MA/MFA studentships for UK/EU students as well as a selection of awards for International (non-EU) students.The Sarabande Foundation Scholarship award offers one fully funded MA/MFA studentship for a UK/EU student and will be bestowed on the basis of artistic merit, combined with demonstrated financial need.  Nominated candidates will be invited to apply specifically for this scholarship after the Entrance Examinations with successful applicants invited to a Sarabande Scholarship interview.The Artists Collecting Society prize is awarded on merit to an MA or MFA student entering the second year of study. The award is worth £3000.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Felix Slade Scholarships are entrance scholarships open to graduate Home and EU students. There are six awards available. The scholarship will cover £5000.00 towards the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA programme.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The Irving Wernick Scholarship is offered to an incoming Graduate 
student working primarily in portraiture or figuratively on entry to the
 School.  The award is worth £7000.00 in each year of the programme. The gift is in memory of a Slade alumnus, Irving Wernick. The Leonora Carrington Scholarship; the Eileen Gray Scholarship; the Yitzhak Danziger Scholarship. These awards are entrance scholarships open to Overseas students. Each award provides £5,000.00 towards the Overseas fees in each year of study of the MA or MFA programme. One award is available in each area (Fine Art Media, Painting and Sculpture).The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Siva-Finestone Scholarship is open to Home and EU students. The award is a partial fee award for the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA Fine Art programme. One award is available every two years, being awarded in odd-numbered years.The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000.The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in his or her final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award provides a free ACME studio for one year plus a bursary of up to £7,000 to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Barto Dos Santos Memorial Award of £5,000 is for outstanding achievement by a final year graduate student.The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.The Chadwell Award - graduating postgraduate students are to be offered the opportunity this year to apply to the Chadwell Award.  This annual competition for final year Fine Art postgraduates aims to provide a bridge between art school and professional practice by giving a recent graduate a free studio in Bow, East London for one year together with a bursary of £5000.  Different institutions are targeted each year and Slade students will benefit from the opportunity to be considered in 2015.The Chelsea Arts Club Special Projects Award of £2,000 is made annually to a continuing MA or MFA student to help them with the cost of their studies and materials in their final year. The Award also includes one year's membership of the Chelsea Arts Club. The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Land Securities Award provides a free studio space for one year and an exhibition to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Max Werner Drawing Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually to a final year graduate student who has demonstrated excellence in drawing.The Peter and Betty McLean Prize of £1,000 is awarded anually to a final year graduate student.The Slade is invited to nominate candidates for the annual Red Mansion Art Prize. The prize is a residency in China for a continuing graduate student.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement. A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Slade graduate students are invited to compete for one of six artist residencies in Hong Kong at the Academy of Visual Arts, Hong Kong Baptist University, China.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the Fees and Funding section above.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the section above. UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration,
 tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic 
year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual 
increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. 
Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and 
living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership which brings together three leading UK research organisations: University College London (UCL), King’s College, London (KCL) and the School of Advanced Study (SAS). The LAHP will be awarding up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study or University College London in 2017-18. These studentships, which normally cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU students. As well as funding for studentships and shared doctoral training, this will open up additional opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision for Slade students across these three leading research institutions. For further information, please see www.lahp.ac.uk.If you wish to be considered for a LAHP Studentship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities please see the following links:UCL Scholarships and FundingUCL Doctoral SchoolJoint Faculty Institute of Graduate StudiesApplicants must indicate on their UCL application form that they wish to apply for a UCL Scholarship. If you wish to be considered for a UCL Research Scholarship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding application. Many deadlines for scholarships fall early in the spring and you may need to apply for the October deadline.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.Jean Spencer and Malcolm Hughes Bursaries are available each year for MPhil/PhD students to enable them to further their research through projects, conferences, travel, or other research activities. The maximum size of any bursary is £500 and applications for smaller awards are encouraged. There are two deadlines per academic year and applications are considered at the Slade Doctoral Board.Other sources of funding for research including conference, travel and project funds can be found on the UCL Doctoral School web pages. Born in 1923 in Brooklyn, New York U.S.A., Irving was spotted drawing portraits in Washington Square and won a scholarship to the Brooklyn High School of Music and Art, from which he gained a university entrance diploma. From 1941 to 1943 he studied at the Art School of the National Academy of Design in Brooklyn before joining the U.S. Navy in which he served from 1943-46.  Following the war, he went on to Cornell University where he studied History of Greek, Roman and Renaissance Art. Travel to Florence to study at the Academy of Fine Arts followed and it was here that he met his wife, Doreen who was working there as a governess, hav­ing completed her own university education at Kings College London. They re­turned to London together to get married and Irving then studied at the Slade School of Fine Art from 1952-55 under Professor William Coldstream and John Aldridge A.R.A. FINA6606 Methodologies of Drawing is a module taught by the Slade which is available to students from other departments in UCL. Priority on the module is given to students taking the BASc Arts and Sciences degree and the BSc Architectural and Interdisciplinary Studies. Application to the module is by Portfolio Inspection. Students from other departments, and intercollegiate students may apply to take the module, but we cannot guarantee places on the module until after the Portfolio Inspections have taken place. All students are required to submit a portfolio of work at the start of the Autumn Term. Portfolios will be reviewed and places allocated following the portfolio inspection. All students wishing to take FINA6606 must submit a portfolio of work to the Slade Office by the deadline.Any students who enter FINA6606 on Portico and who do not submit a portfolio of work for inspection will be rejected from the module. We are not able to give feedback on individual portfolios. Portfolios may be delivered to the Slade Office from 18th September 2017 and must be delivered by 10am on 27th September 2017. Portfolios should be clearly labelled with your name; loose work should be individually named.Teaching will take place on Mondays at the Slade Research Centre on Woburn Square. Classes take place between 6.00pm and 8.30pm in Term 1. In Term 2, students work independently, developing their individual approaches to drawing. Students will receive two 30 minute one-to-one tutorials ahead of their submission of the final portfolio of work.The final assessed portfolio of work is due to be handed in at the Slade Office by 4.00pm on Friday, 27th April 2018.FINA6606 students do not have access to the Slade Workshops. A materials fee of £75 is payable by the student or the student’s home department.Students are expected to attend all of the classes.  Methodologies of Drawing examines a series of practises of drawing in Fine Art, emphasising the development of concepts of drawing. The intention is that students learn through practice and treat drawing as a mode of thinking, feeling and enquiry.The syllabus is divided into five sections, each taught over two sessions:The books below are recommendations, although they are not required reading for the course. Students are encouraged to visit museums and galleries where drawings are regularly shown. For further information, please contact slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk, with FINA6606 in the title of your e-mail.There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art. The Slade School of Fine Art is a world leading art school with a reputation for excellence. As part of UCL, London's Global University, the Slade provides an open and supportive environment for engagement with the process of art making at the highest level, attracting an international community of students. Students are supported to realize and strengthen their creative potential through experimentation, dialogue and fine art making in all its forms.There are around 110 full-time graduate students at the Slade studying 
on either the MA in Fine Art or the MFA in Fine Art. The MA is a 
24-month studio-based programme, which has a taught History and Theory 
of Art component. The MFA is an 18-month studio-based programme with a 
two part, written and oral, Critical Studies component. All students 
follow the same studio programme, working alongside each other in an 
open studio environment, electing to work in the Sculpture, Painting or 
Fine Art Media studios. There is lively cross over between all areas. Watch the video: Graduate students discuss their Slade experience.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.   The Graduate Painting area celebrates painting in all its diverse contemporary forms, and in its long tradition in western art and art of other cultures. Students engage in the practice of painting through a range of approaches, including panels and stretched canvas, wall painting, installation-based painting and painting determined by architectural contexts. Painting is also developed through experimentation with other art forms such as printmaking, photography, film and video, sound, performance and object making.  Drawing is a fundamental concern. Students are encouraged to explore painting at a high level by focusing on the connections between thinking, feeling, looking and making. An inquisitive, enquiring approach to craft is essential to the enrichment of the students’ intellectual and emotional understanding of the medium. Analysis and actualisation of the pleasure and beauty of painting in all its complexity is at the heart of the area. Discussion and debate fuel and sharpen the students’ critical awareness of the nature of painting within a contemporary art context and their ability to question the position of painting today.   Graduate Painting leads two current research projects: the Material Research Project, since 2010, and the Discourse Project, since 2014, both situated in the Methods Room within the Graduate Painting studios. The Graduate Sculpture area invites students working across a range of media to work within an environment of making, experimentation and ideas. It is a practical, studio based area investigating objects, placement, form, space and composite activities, seeking to explore what is distinctive about sculpture and finding out what is possible. The ethos of the course is to embrace a broad range of sculptural practices - from transitory spatial interventions with light, sound or text to the most solid, obstructive forms, such as working with stone, bronze, plaster and clay. The studios are a productive, active environment - space is seen as a shared, flexible resource and the forum for critical attention, debate and imaginative experimentation. Students are expected to work independently within the framework of the graduate programme and wider criticality and awareness of contemporary and historical discourse. Students in the Fine Art Media area pursue their creative ideas through a variety of media, which are supported by both academic and technical staff who hold a broad level of expertise. Currently there are students working with photography, film, video, performance, text, sound, installation, printmaking and all manner of object and image making.  There is no limit or expectation as to the media used in the Fine Art Media area. Although most graduate students in the School will have studied fine art, some may have come to fine art through studying other disciplines, for example music or literature. The wide range of creative activity and cultural experience of the students makes for a rich and diverse studio culture. The aim of the Fine Art Media area is to foster a strong sense of community and group responsibility within the studio, to create a vibrant and stimulating working atmosphere that is informed and critical yet supportive and to help students develop and trust their own judgement and creativity, encouraging independence of vision and thought. Students on the MFA and MA follow the same studio 
course and are based in one studio discipline: painting, sculpture or 
fine art media (which includes electronic media, photography, print, 
performance, sound, film and video). Both programmes are 
research-centred. The main difference between the MFA and the MA lies in
 the distinction between the critical studies in the MFA and the history and theory of art in the MA.  The
 teaching takes place through individual tutorials, small cross-area 
group tutorials made up of both first and second year students from each
 subject area, studio critiques and critical studies seminars, where 
students present their research interests and contextualise their work 
to their peer group. In addition there are 
opportunities to participate in research projects at the Slade Research 
Centre, Woburn Square. These week-long projects provide an opportunity 
to explore ideas alongside students who are based across all three 
areas, and to make work on a larger scale. In addition, a programme of 
visiting artists is arranged throughout the year. The first year
 incorporates a taught programme (delivered through lectures, seminars, 
tutorials and workshops) to upgrade theoretical and technical skills, 
but primarily demands a considerable degree of investigation and 
experimentation.  The second year 
prioritizes individual research (conducted under supervision), building 
on and consolidating the learning and experimentation of the first year,
 leading to original results by graduate students capable of organising 
and implementing an independent programme at this level. The course 
offers several opportunities for the presentation of work to the wider 
public and culminates in the final graduate exhibition. One
 of the Slade's great strengths is the wide range of facilities and 
expertise that it offers to students, regardless of their study area. In
 the School there is a strong commitment to the teaching of both 
traditional and emerging techniques, and analogue and digital 
technologies. These include film and video, analogue and digital 
photography, screen printing, etching, stone lithography and 
bookbinding, alongside continually updated digital resources supported 
by online tutorial learning.  There is a 
comprehensive workshop supporting woodwork, metal work, hot metal, 
ceramics, foundry work and casting, as well as access to laser cutting 
and CADCAM.  The painting studios house a Methods Room for canvas and 
paint preparation and investigation into pigments supported by the Materials Research Project.  Preliminary
 inductions to all the workshops within the Slade take place at the 
beginning of the year and are mandatory in order to use the facilities. 
Further sessions are available to teach new skills or build on existing 
skills, for instance specialist workshops on black and white and colour 
photography, 16mm film-making, photographic lighting, video editing, 
chroma key and the sound studio.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Ignacio Acosta, Mania Akbari and Douglas White, Jane Bustin, Matt Calderwood, Gillian Carnegie, Marcus Coates, Enrico David, Tom Debenham, Nicolas Deshayes, Mel Gooding, Brian Griffiths, Anne Hardy, Melanie Keen (Director, Iniva), Mark Leckey, Christina Mackie, Anthony Malinowski, Jeffrey Charles Henry Peacock, Eddie Peake, Heather Phillipson, Amalia Pica, Nicola Pozzani (Bespoke Perfumer at Floris, London, and Scent educator London College of Fashion and  Y-Institute, Bern University of Arts, Bern, Switzerland), Ruth Proctor, Prem Sahib, Alex Sainsbury (Director, Raven Row), Meekyoung Shin, John Smith (film-maker), Yonatan Vinitsky, Lynette Clarrie Wallis (Curator of Contemporary Art, Tate Britain and Tate Modern), Bruno Wolheim, Yiadom-Boakye, Toby Ziegler The
 History and Theory of Art programme of the MA involves both coursework 
and individual research. The taught component comprises a series of 
weekly seminars in the autumn and spring terms of the first year. The
 taught course work is assessed by means of termly essays that are 
essential for the development of study and writing skills and must be 
passed. The Research Report and assessed course work contribute 25% to 
the final degree award (10% in Year 1, 15% in Year 2) and studio work 
contributes 75%. The Research Report is meant to stand independently 
from studio work and is assessed separately. There may, and indeed 
should, be a connection with studio work, but this may be indirect. The 
topic should in some way be related to art, art history, art theory, 
aesthetics, visual theory, cultural studies or curating. During
 the first year students should attend a seminar programme extending 
over the course of the academic year which introduces them to a varied 
body of ideas and approaches, encourages them to consider the relations 
between theory and practice, and gives them the opportunity to gain 
extra experience in writing. It includes practical sessions on research 
and dissertation writing. These seminars provide students with the 
opportunity to participate in a stimulating and supportive environment 
for intellectual work. Students are expected to develop an approach to 
research and writing that is both inventive and rigorous. Students must 
pass this component of the programme on the basis of their attendance 
and essays.Part 1: a written paper that should consist of 3000 words, or equivalent (but not exclusively visual materials). Part 2:
 an oral presentation of twenty minutes' duration to the internal 
assessors and the student's peer group, followed by five minutes for 
questions. Students are expected to present their research orally and 
visually placing their studio work in a critical context. Critical
 Studies are a key component of the MFA programe and students must pass 
both parts in order to be awarded the MFA in Fine Art. Both parts should
 demonstrate the student's ability to develop, contextualize and 
articulate their research critically in preparation for professional 
practice. Each part is marked Pass/Fail. The 
evaluation of the Critical Studies Part 1 and 2 are subsumed into the 
final degree marking scheme.
    Applicants can take a tour of the Slade during the autumn term which includes a talk by the head of area and a tour of the studios and facilities. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.   The deadline for applications is 5 January 2018. All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online. Late applications will not be considered under any circumstances.   Applicants must complete the online form. All applicants should use the Supplementary Personal Statement section on the online application form to submit a study proposal outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements.All applicants must also upload the following supporting documentation:   When you have completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they view your portfolio. It is recommended that you complete the online application in advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.   All applicants must submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. The portfolio inspection takes place in late January.   Applicants are informed of the results of the portfolio inspection in writing.   It is our policy to invite all shortlisted applicants to interview and in 2018 these will take place in the week beginning 19 February. Interviews cannot be conducted at alternative times or by telephone or skype. If you are invited for interview but unable to attend, you must make sure your portfolio is at the Slade to be viewed by the examiners when final decisions are made. Indicate your availability for interview on the application form. Final decisions and offers of admission are made after the interview period is complete.   Applicants will be required to hold a first degree in Fine Art at second-class UK Honours level or above (or its overseas equivalent) and will be required to satisfy the School that they have an appropriate level of academic achievement. Exceptionally, an applicant with a first degree in a related subject (such as Art History) will be considered, but evidence of a high level of achievement in the chosen studio discipline will also be required.   Applicants will normally be of graduate standing. Exceptionally, an applicant may be considered whose previous education and professional experience are deemed by UCL to be equivalent to graduate level.   Applicants will normally be of degree standing. Students whose education has not been conducted in English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MA the Advanced level is required. For the MFA and Graduate Affiliate Study the Standard level is required.UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of approved English language courses. For all enquiries about either the
MA or MFA programme, please email us on slade.enquiries@ucl.ac.uk.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These include a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions, followed by a tour.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the School and spend some time at the event, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current graduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in June.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two graduate programmes, the two academic year MFA in Fine Art and the two calendar year MA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see above.All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online by 4 January. No, late applications will not be considered.MFA applicants should include a study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MFA applicants do not need to submit a separate Research Proposal or writing sample.Yes, submit your study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of your study and research on the programme, focusing in particular on your studio work. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MA applicants should also upload a Research Proposal (two A4 pages) containing a clear and succinct statement of your proposed area of theoretical research which includes a working title for your history and theory dissertation; the reason why you have chosen the subject; a summary of the knowledge you already have of the subject; the objectives for the research; what areas of study you think the research will involve; what methods you will employ in the research; what sources you will use for the research, i.e., libraries, museums etc, and a brief bibliography. MA applicants must also upload a recent piece of written work 2,500 - 3,000 words in length (upload this as the Additional Document). You should apply for either the MA or the MFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the MA/MFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the MA or MFA.If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see UCL's English Language Proficiency Requirement.The UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.Yes, you can. You will need to demonstrate that your experience and portfolio are of comparable quality to applicants who have studied Fine Art at undergraduate level. Your previous degree may be in a related discipline, e.g. architecture or art history, or you may have graduated some time ago but built a career as a practising artist independently. The strength and appropriateness of your portfolio, study proposal and cv will be crucial in determining whether or not your application is suitable. All applicants should Apply Online and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. All applicants will be able to check the progress of their application through the UCL Portal. You will create a username and password for the UCL Portal when you submit your online application.No. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work.If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the email giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. All applicants should check the UCL Portal regularly for updates on the status of their application. If you are successful, you will be able to view your offer letter via the UCL Portal. You should respond to the offer through the UCL Portal as soon as possible. Applicants who are unsuccessful will also receive confirmation via the UCL Portal.Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently taking, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform the UCL Admissions Office of their results as soon as they receive them.Deferrals are granted in exceptional circumstances. If you wish to defer your place, you must apply in writing (to the Academic Manager at the Slade) outlining the reasons. In most cases, we prefer candidates to reapply. This enables the examiners to view your most recent work.We have a number of small scholarships. Recipients are nominated during 
the summer by the Slade Scholarships and Prizes Committee. There is no 
application procedure, all students who have confirmed their place are 
considered and nominations are made primarily according to entrance 
examination performance and academic merit. See Fees and Funding.You are strongly advised to begin your search for funding opportunities as soon as possible as many deadlines are very early. In the past graduate students at the Slade have been successful in achieving funding from a range of organisations including the following: British Council, Association of Commonwealth Universities, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, IKY, Samstag Scholarship, SAAS, Pola Art Foundation, DAAD, Inlaks Foundation and Charles Wallace India Trust. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.  The Slade School of Fine Art is an art school
with an international outlook, part of UCL, London's global university. The
Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in which to
develop your doctoral research. We welcome applications from students with a
wide range of backgrounds, here in the UK and internationally. Our focus is on
subject areas within the Slade (painting, sculpture and fine art media) and on
interdisciplinary research between the Slade and disciplines offered by UCL. The
Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership. The LAHP annually awards up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts
and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study
or University College London in 2018/19. These studentships, which normally
cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU
students.The aims of the MPhil/PhD programme are to:    The Slade offers a choice between the
following three options within the PhD programme: The MPhil/PhD programme has strong links to
the taught programmes at the Slade and you will also have access to the
School-wide lecture and visiting artists’ programme. The Slade provides
excellent workshop and research facilities.  Current Slade research themes
include: painting, sculpture, fine-art media, materiality, word and image,
landscape and electronic media. As part of UCL we offer an extensive range
of research skill courses through UCL Doctoral School plus support from the Arts and Humanities Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate
Studies (JFIGS) and London Arts and Humanities Research Partnership (LAHP). In addition to
personal tutorials, students participate in: Students are
also expected to attend: In addition we would
expect our students to be active participants in exhibitions, performances,
events, conferences, and publishing both within and beyond UCL.   Head of the Doctoral Programme and
Co-ordinator of the written and practice-related options: Dr Sharon MorrisCo-ordinator of the practice-led option: Dr Hayley Newman (on sabbatical leave Autumn 2017) Your primary
supervisor will be a member of Slade staff, all of whom are practising artists or
scholars in the history and theory of art, with national and international
profiles.   Secondary
supervision is also available from renowned scholars and specialists throughout
UCL, including the sciences where appropriate. Second supervisors currently
include:












 Dr Chiara Ambrosio (Science and Technology Studies), Dr
Tim Beasley-Murray (School of Slavonic & East European Studies, Dr
Stephanie Bird (German), Dr Caroline Bressey (Geography), 












 Dr Victor Buchli (Anthropology),  Dr Ben Campkin (Bartlett School of
Architecture), Professor Susanne
Kord (German), Dr Petra Lange-Berndt (History of Art), Dr Miriam Leonard (Greek and Latin), 












 Prof Tamar Garb (History of Art), Professor Susanne
Kuechler (Anthropology),  Professor Timothy
Mathews (French), Dr Peg Rawes (Bartlett School of
Architecture), 












 Dr Ruth Siddall (Earth Sciences),  Dr Alison Wright (History of Art). There
are also opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision across the London Arts
and Humanities Partnership with staff in King’s College London and the School
of Advanced Studies. Recent and current
visitors to the MPhil/PhD Programme Michael Newman; Kristen Kreider; Howard Caygill; Fiona Sampson; Saradha Soobrayen.Outlines of current and archived MPhil and PhD Research are in theStudent Research section.     There are two application deadlines:   The first application deadline is 30 October 2017. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 5, 6 and 7 December 2017. If you wish to make an application for a LAHP or UCL Scholarship, you should apply for this deadline.   The second application deadline is 26 February 2018. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 24 April 2018.   Both application deadlines are for entry in September 2018.     Applicants can attend the MPhil/PhD Open Day, which will be held 10am – 1pm on Wednesday 4 October 2017. For details on how to book, see our tours booking page.     All applicants for MPhil/PhD and Graduate Affiliate Research should Apply Online. Course code: RRDFINSING01, Programme Title: Research Degree: Slade School.    Applicants must complete the online form and
upload the following supporting documentation:a piece of writing:The Slade does not require applicants to have approached supervisors in advance of making the application to study. However, Slade tutors’ profiles and research interests are listed on our people pages. It is strongly advised that applicants read our staff members’ profiles before submitting an application. If there is a member of staff with whom you would particularly like to work, you may name him or her on the application form; however, supervision by a specific tutor cannot be guaranteed at the application stage.     When you have
completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they
will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their
references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded
by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is
your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references
promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they review your
application. It is recommended that you complete the online application in
advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.If you are applying to take the practice-led or practice-related MPhil/PhD you will be invited to submit your portfolio online via Slideroom. You will need to submit up to fifteen images. Include the title of the work, date, dimensions and medium for each image. Videos and films should be presented as a showreel with a maximum duration of ten minutes. Submissions which do not follow these guidelines cannot be considered.Further details, and a link to the Slade’s Slideroom portfolio submission, will be sent to you once you have submitted the UCL MPhil/PhD application, including instructions for those applicants who do not wish to use SlideroomPlease note that Portfolio deadline for the autumn applicaiton round is 6th November 2017. Applicants who have applied by the 30th October deadline will be sent link to Slideroom.     Dr Sharon Morris Head of the Slade Doctoral Programme, and a small team of senior Slade staff meet to consider all applications and shortlist candidates on the basis of the quality of their studio work, their suitability for research, and the feasibility of their research proposal and its supervision. Shortlisted applicants will be interviewed by the co-ordinators plus the proposed supervisory team.       Successful applicants normally register in
September.      Applicants
will hold a good first degree and will normally be expected to have studied to
MA or MFA level.    All students whose first language is not English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MPhil/PhD the Advanced level is required.For admission enquiries please email Lou Adkin and Clare Meckled-Szembek.Due to the number of applicants we are unable to discuss who to nominate as a supervisor or to advise on proposals before you submit your application, however, you may add names to your application form and if shortlisted we will also suggest possible supervisors. Please look at the Slade website for staff research profiles.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries. There are two application deadlines. Please check the Admissions section above for these deadlines.Please note that if you are applying for a grant or scholarship, you should check the deadline in advance. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this will mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. See the UCL Scholarships and Funding page for further details. All applications are considered by a small team of senior Slade staff and shortlisted candidates are invited for interview. Interviews are conducted by the co-ordinators of the PhD programme plus the proposed supervisory team. Due to the high number of applications received, we are unable to offer feedback on your application or interview.Candidates are expected to begin their programme in September.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities see the following links:UCL Scholarships and Funding UCL Doctoral School Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding that you are applying for. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this may mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions. The Slade School of Fine Art is a world leading art school with a reputation for excellence. As part of UCL, London's Global University, the Slade provides an open and supportive environment for engagement with the process of art making at the highest level, attracting an international community of students. Students are supported to realize and strengthen their creative potential through experimentation, dialogue and fine art making in all its forms.There are around 110 full-time graduate students at the Slade studying 
on either the MA in Fine Art or the MFA in Fine Art. The MA is a 
24-month studio-based programme, which has a taught History and Theory 
of Art component. The MFA is an 18-month studio-based programme with a 
two part, written and oral, Critical Studies component. All students 
follow the same studio programme, working alongside each other in an 
open studio environment, electing to work in the Sculpture, Painting or 
Fine Art Media studios. There is lively cross over between all areas. Watch the video: Graduate students discuss their Slade experience.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.   The Graduate Painting area celebrates painting in all its diverse contemporary forms, and in its long tradition in western art and art of other cultures. Students engage in the practice of painting through a range of approaches, including panels and stretched canvas, wall painting, installation-based painting and painting determined by architectural contexts. Painting is also developed through experimentation with other art forms such as printmaking, photography, film and video, sound, performance and object making.  Drawing is a fundamental concern. Students are encouraged to explore painting at a high level by focusing on the connections between thinking, feeling, looking and making. An inquisitive, enquiring approach to craft is essential to the enrichment of the students’ intellectual and emotional understanding of the medium. Analysis and actualisation of the pleasure and beauty of painting in all its complexity is at the heart of the area. Discussion and debate fuel and sharpen the students’ critical awareness of the nature of painting within a contemporary art context and their ability to question the position of painting today.   Graduate Painting leads two current research projects: the Material Research Project, since 2010, and the Discourse Project, since 2014, both situated in the Methods Room within the Graduate Painting studios. The Graduate Sculpture area invites students working across a range of media to work within an environment of making, experimentation and ideas. It is a practical, studio based area investigating objects, placement, form, space and composite activities, seeking to explore what is distinctive about sculpture and finding out what is possible. The ethos of the course is to embrace a broad range of sculptural practices - from transitory spatial interventions with light, sound or text to the most solid, obstructive forms, such as working with stone, bronze, plaster and clay. The studios are a productive, active environment - space is seen as a shared, flexible resource and the forum for critical attention, debate and imaginative experimentation. Students are expected to work independently within the framework of the graduate programme and wider criticality and awareness of contemporary and historical discourse. Students in the Fine Art Media area pursue their creative ideas through a variety of media, which are supported by both academic and technical staff who hold a broad level of expertise. Currently there are students working with photography, film, video, performance, text, sound, installation, printmaking and all manner of object and image making.  There is no limit or expectation as to the media used in the Fine Art Media area. Although most graduate students in the School will have studied fine art, some may have come to fine art through studying other disciplines, for example music or literature. The wide range of creative activity and cultural experience of the students makes for a rich and diverse studio culture. The aim of the Fine Art Media area is to foster a strong sense of community and group responsibility within the studio, to create a vibrant and stimulating working atmosphere that is informed and critical yet supportive and to help students develop and trust their own judgement and creativity, encouraging independence of vision and thought. Students on the MFA and MA follow the same studio 
course and are based in one studio discipline: painting, sculpture or 
fine art media (which includes electronic media, photography, print, 
performance, sound, film and video). Both programmes are 
research-centred. The main difference between the MFA and the MA lies in
 the distinction between the critical studies in the MFA and the history and theory of art in the MA.  The
 teaching takes place through individual tutorials, small cross-area 
group tutorials made up of both first and second year students from each
 subject area, studio critiques and critical studies seminars, where 
students present their research interests and contextualise their work 
to their peer group. In addition there are 
opportunities to participate in research projects at the Slade Research 
Centre, Woburn Square. These week-long projects provide an opportunity 
to explore ideas alongside students who are based across all three 
areas, and to make work on a larger scale. In addition, a programme of 
visiting artists is arranged throughout the year. The first year
 incorporates a taught programme (delivered through lectures, seminars, 
tutorials and workshops) to upgrade theoretical and technical skills, 
but primarily demands a considerable degree of investigation and 
experimentation.  The second year 
prioritizes individual research (conducted under supervision), building 
on and consolidating the learning and experimentation of the first year,
 leading to original results by graduate students capable of organising 
and implementing an independent programme at this level. The course 
offers several opportunities for the presentation of work to the wider 
public and culminates in the final graduate exhibition. One
 of the Slade's great strengths is the wide range of facilities and 
expertise that it offers to students, regardless of their study area. In
 the School there is a strong commitment to the teaching of both 
traditional and emerging techniques, and analogue and digital 
technologies. These include film and video, analogue and digital 
photography, screen printing, etching, stone lithography and 
bookbinding, alongside continually updated digital resources supported 
by online tutorial learning.  There is a 
comprehensive workshop supporting woodwork, metal work, hot metal, 
ceramics, foundry work and casting, as well as access to laser cutting 
and CADCAM.  The painting studios house a Methods Room for canvas and 
paint preparation and investigation into pigments supported by the Materials Research Project.  Preliminary
 inductions to all the workshops within the Slade take place at the 
beginning of the year and are mandatory in order to use the facilities. 
Further sessions are available to teach new skills or build on existing 
skills, for instance specialist workshops on black and white and colour 
photography, 16mm film-making, photographic lighting, video editing, 
chroma key and the sound studio.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Ignacio Acosta, Mania Akbari and Douglas White, Jane Bustin, Matt Calderwood, Gillian Carnegie, Marcus Coates, Enrico David, Tom Debenham, Nicolas Deshayes, Mel Gooding, Brian Griffiths, Anne Hardy, Melanie Keen (Director, Iniva), Mark Leckey, Christina Mackie, Anthony Malinowski, Jeffrey Charles Henry Peacock, Eddie Peake, Heather Phillipson, Amalia Pica, Nicola Pozzani (Bespoke Perfumer at Floris, London, and Scent educator London College of Fashion and  Y-Institute, Bern University of Arts, Bern, Switzerland), Ruth Proctor, Prem Sahib, Alex Sainsbury (Director, Raven Row), Meekyoung Shin, John Smith (film-maker), Yonatan Vinitsky, Lynette Clarrie Wallis (Curator of Contemporary Art, Tate Britain and Tate Modern), Bruno Wolheim, Yiadom-Boakye, Toby Ziegler The
 History and Theory of Art programme of the MA involves both coursework 
and individual research. The taught component comprises a series of 
weekly seminars in the autumn and spring terms of the first year. The
 taught course work is assessed by means of termly essays that are 
essential for the development of study and writing skills and must be 
passed. The Research Report and assessed course work contribute 25% to 
the final degree award (10% in Year 1, 15% in Year 2) and studio work 
contributes 75%. The Research Report is meant to stand independently 
from studio work and is assessed separately. There may, and indeed 
should, be a connection with studio work, but this may be indirect. The 
topic should in some way be related to art, art history, art theory, 
aesthetics, visual theory, cultural studies or curating. During
 the first year students should attend a seminar programme extending 
over the course of the academic year which introduces them to a varied 
body of ideas and approaches, encourages them to consider the relations 
between theory and practice, and gives them the opportunity to gain 
extra experience in writing. It includes practical sessions on research 
and dissertation writing. These seminars provide students with the 
opportunity to participate in a stimulating and supportive environment 
for intellectual work. Students are expected to develop an approach to 
research and writing that is both inventive and rigorous. Students must 
pass this component of the programme on the basis of their attendance 
and essays.Part 1: a written paper that should consist of 3000 words, or equivalent (but not exclusively visual materials). Part 2:
 an oral presentation of twenty minutes' duration to the internal 
assessors and the student's peer group, followed by five minutes for 
questions. Students are expected to present their research orally and 
visually placing their studio work in a critical context. Critical
 Studies are a key component of the MFA programe and students must pass 
both parts in order to be awarded the MFA in Fine Art. Both parts should
 demonstrate the student's ability to develop, contextualize and 
articulate their research critically in preparation for professional 
practice. Each part is marked Pass/Fail. The 
evaluation of the Critical Studies Part 1 and 2 are subsumed into the 
final degree marking scheme.
    Applicants can take a tour of the Slade during the autumn term which includes a talk by the head of area and a tour of the studios and facilities. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.   The deadline for applications is 5 January 2018. All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online. Late applications will not be considered under any circumstances.   Applicants must complete the online form. All applicants should use the Supplementary Personal Statement section on the online application form to submit a study proposal outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements.All applicants must also upload the following supporting documentation:   When you have completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they view your portfolio. It is recommended that you complete the online application in advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.   All applicants must submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. The portfolio inspection takes place in late January.   Applicants are informed of the results of the portfolio inspection in writing.   It is our policy to invite all shortlisted applicants to interview and in 2018 these will take place in the week beginning 19 February. Interviews cannot be conducted at alternative times or by telephone or skype. If you are invited for interview but unable to attend, you must make sure your portfolio is at the Slade to be viewed by the examiners when final decisions are made. Indicate your availability for interview on the application form. Final decisions and offers of admission are made after the interview period is complete.   Applicants will be required to hold a first degree in Fine Art at second-class UK Honours level or above (or its overseas equivalent) and will be required to satisfy the School that they have an appropriate level of academic achievement. Exceptionally, an applicant with a first degree in a related subject (such as Art History) will be considered, but evidence of a high level of achievement in the chosen studio discipline will also be required.   Applicants will normally be of graduate standing. Exceptionally, an applicant may be considered whose previous education and professional experience are deemed by UCL to be equivalent to graduate level.   Applicants will normally be of degree standing. Students whose education has not been conducted in English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MA the Advanced level is required. For the MFA and Graduate Affiliate Study the Standard level is required.UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of approved English language courses. For all enquiries about either the
MA or MFA programme, please email us on slade.enquiries@ucl.ac.uk.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These include a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions, followed by a tour.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the School and spend some time at the event, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current graduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in June.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two graduate programmes, the two academic year MFA in Fine Art and the two calendar year MA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see above.All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online by 4 January. No, late applications will not be considered.MFA applicants should include a study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MFA applicants do not need to submit a separate Research Proposal or writing sample.Yes, submit your study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of your study and research on the programme, focusing in particular on your studio work. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MA applicants should also upload a Research Proposal (two A4 pages) containing a clear and succinct statement of your proposed area of theoretical research which includes a working title for your history and theory dissertation; the reason why you have chosen the subject; a summary of the knowledge you already have of the subject; the objectives for the research; what areas of study you think the research will involve; what methods you will employ in the research; what sources you will use for the research, i.e., libraries, museums etc, and a brief bibliography. MA applicants must also upload a recent piece of written work 2,500 - 3,000 words in length (upload this as the Additional Document). You should apply for either the MA or the MFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the MA/MFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the MA or MFA.If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see UCL's English Language Proficiency Requirement.The UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.Yes, you can. You will need to demonstrate that your experience and portfolio are of comparable quality to applicants who have studied Fine Art at undergraduate level. Your previous degree may be in a related discipline, e.g. architecture or art history, or you may have graduated some time ago but built a career as a practising artist independently. The strength and appropriateness of your portfolio, study proposal and cv will be crucial in determining whether or not your application is suitable. All applicants should Apply Online and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. All applicants will be able to check the progress of their application through the UCL Portal. You will create a username and password for the UCL Portal when you submit your online application.No. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work.If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the email giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. All applicants should check the UCL Portal regularly for updates on the status of their application. If you are successful, you will be able to view your offer letter via the UCL Portal. You should respond to the offer through the UCL Portal as soon as possible. Applicants who are unsuccessful will also receive confirmation via the UCL Portal.Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently taking, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform the UCL Admissions Office of their results as soon as they receive them.Deferrals are granted in exceptional circumstances. If you wish to defer your place, you must apply in writing (to the Academic Manager at the Slade) outlining the reasons. In most cases, we prefer candidates to reapply. This enables the examiners to view your most recent work.We have a number of small scholarships. Recipients are nominated during 
the summer by the Slade Scholarships and Prizes Committee. There is no 
application procedure, all students who have confirmed their place are 
considered and nominations are made primarily according to entrance 
examination performance and academic merit. See Fees and Funding.You are strongly advised to begin your search for funding opportunities as soon as possible as many deadlines are very early. In the past graduate students at the Slade have been successful in achieving funding from a range of organisations including the following: British Council, Association of Commonwealth Universities, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, IKY, Samstag Scholarship, SAAS, Pola Art Foundation, DAAD, Inlaks Foundation and Charles Wallace India Trust. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
  The Slade School of Fine Art is an art school
with an international outlook, part of UCL, London's global university. The
Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in which to
develop your doctoral research. We welcome applications from students with a
wide range of backgrounds, here in the UK and internationally. Our focus is on
subject areas within the Slade (painting, sculpture and fine art media) and on
interdisciplinary research between the Slade and disciplines offered by UCL. The
Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership. The LAHP annually awards up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts
and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study
or University College London in 2018/19. These studentships, which normally
cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU
students.The aims of the MPhil/PhD programme are to:    The Slade offers a choice between the
following three options within the PhD programme: The MPhil/PhD programme has strong links to
the taught programmes at the Slade and you will also have access to the
School-wide lecture and visiting artists’ programme. The Slade provides
excellent workshop and research facilities.  Current Slade research themes
include: painting, sculpture, fine-art media, materiality, word and image,
landscape and electronic media. As part of UCL we offer an extensive range
of research skill courses through UCL Doctoral School plus support from the Arts and Humanities Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate
Studies (JFIGS) and London Arts and Humanities Research Partnership (LAHP). In addition to
personal tutorials, students participate in: Students are
also expected to attend: In addition we would
expect our students to be active participants in exhibitions, performances,
events, conferences, and publishing both within and beyond UCL.   Head of the Doctoral Programme and
Co-ordinator of the written and practice-related options: Dr Sharon MorrisCo-ordinator of the practice-led option: Dr Hayley Newman (on sabbatical leave Autumn 2017) Your primary
supervisor will be a member of Slade staff, all of whom are practising artists or
scholars in the history and theory of art, with national and international
profiles.   Secondary
supervision is also available from renowned scholars and specialists throughout
UCL, including the sciences where appropriate. Second supervisors currently
include:












 Dr Chiara Ambrosio (Science and Technology Studies), Dr
Tim Beasley-Murray (School of Slavonic & East European Studies, Dr
Stephanie Bird (German), Dr Caroline Bressey (Geography), 












 Dr Victor Buchli (Anthropology),  Dr Ben Campkin (Bartlett School of
Architecture), Professor Susanne
Kord (German), Dr Petra Lange-Berndt (History of Art), Dr Miriam Leonard (Greek and Latin), 












 Prof Tamar Garb (History of Art), Professor Susanne
Kuechler (Anthropology),  Professor Timothy
Mathews (French), Dr Peg Rawes (Bartlett School of
Architecture), 












 Dr Ruth Siddall (Earth Sciences),  Dr Alison Wright (History of Art). There
are also opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision across the London Arts
and Humanities Partnership with staff in King’s College London and the School
of Advanced Studies. Recent and current
visitors to the MPhil/PhD Programme Michael Newman; Kristen Kreider; Howard Caygill; Fiona Sampson; Saradha Soobrayen.Outlines of current and archived MPhil and PhD Research are in theStudent Research section.     There are two application deadlines:   The first application deadline is 30 October 2017. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 5, 6 and 7 December 2017. If you wish to make an application for a LAHP or UCL Scholarship, you should apply for this deadline.   The second application deadline is 26 February 2018. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 24 April 2018.   Both application deadlines are for entry in September 2018.     Applicants can attend the MPhil/PhD Open Day, which will be held 10am – 1pm on Wednesday 4 October 2017. For details on how to book, see our tours booking page.     All applicants for MPhil/PhD and Graduate Affiliate Research should Apply Online. Course code: RRDFINSING01, Programme Title: Research Degree: Slade School.    Applicants must complete the online form and
upload the following supporting documentation:a piece of writing:The Slade does not require applicants to have approached supervisors in advance of making the application to study. However, Slade tutors’ profiles and research interests are listed on our people pages. It is strongly advised that applicants read our staff members’ profiles before submitting an application. If there is a member of staff with whom you would particularly like to work, you may name him or her on the application form; however, supervision by a specific tutor cannot be guaranteed at the application stage.     When you have
completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they
will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their
references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded
by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is
your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references
promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they review your
application. It is recommended that you complete the online application in
advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.If you are applying to take the practice-led or practice-related MPhil/PhD you will be invited to submit your portfolio online via Slideroom. You will need to submit up to fifteen images. Include the title of the work, date, dimensions and medium for each image. Videos and films should be presented as a showreel with a maximum duration of ten minutes. Submissions which do not follow these guidelines cannot be considered.Further details, and a link to the Slade’s Slideroom portfolio submission, will be sent to you once you have submitted the UCL MPhil/PhD application, including instructions for those applicants who do not wish to use SlideroomPlease note that Portfolio deadline for the autumn applicaiton round is 6th November 2017. Applicants who have applied by the 30th October deadline will be sent link to Slideroom.     Dr Sharon Morris Head of the Slade Doctoral Programme, and a small team of senior Slade staff meet to consider all applications and shortlist candidates on the basis of the quality of their studio work, their suitability for research, and the feasibility of their research proposal and its supervision. Shortlisted applicants will be interviewed by the co-ordinators plus the proposed supervisory team.       Successful applicants normally register in
September.      Applicants
will hold a good first degree and will normally be expected to have studied to
MA or MFA level.    All students whose first language is not English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MPhil/PhD the Advanced level is required.For admission enquiries please email Lou Adkin and Clare Meckled-Szembek.Due to the number of applicants we are unable to discuss who to nominate as a supervisor or to advise on proposals before you submit your application, however, you may add names to your application form and if shortlisted we will also suggest possible supervisors. Please look at the Slade website for staff research profiles.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries. There are two application deadlines. Please check the Admissions section above for these deadlines.Please note that if you are applying for a grant or scholarship, you should check the deadline in advance. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this will mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. See the UCL Scholarships and Funding page for further details. All applications are considered by a small team of senior Slade staff and shortlisted candidates are invited for interview. Interviews are conducted by the co-ordinators of the PhD programme plus the proposed supervisory team. Due to the high number of applications received, we are unable to offer feedback on your application or interview.Candidates are expected to begin their programme in September.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities see the following links:UCL Scholarships and Funding UCL Doctoral School Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding that you are applying for. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this may mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions.The Slade offers two undergraduate programmes, the BA and the BFA in Fine Art; two Masters programmes, the MA and MFA in Fine Art; the MPhil/PhD in Fine Art, plus affiliate student programmes at all levels. An experimental research-oriented approach is at the heart of a studio-centred teaching environment, with each student - from BA/BFA through to PhD - expected to conduct individual and original research from day one.We
provide studio-centred teaching on our three year  BFA and four year BA.  At Graduate level we offer two
studio-based, research-centred programmes in Fine Art. A two calendar-year MA and a two academic-year MFA.The Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in
which to develop your doctoral research. We
have undergraduate exchange agreements with schools in the United States,
Europe, Israel and China and provide opportunities to international students at all levels for affiliate study.The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter.The Slade School of Fine Art defines itself as a research-orientated institution with an emphasis on experiment and investigation, the outcome of which need not conform to the constraints of any pre-existing model. This is especially the case at graduate level, exemplified in the results from six separate weeks of concentrated activity by clusters of students electing to work under the respective umbrellas of specific research themes: speed, light, time, colour, scale and space. Each concept was chosen as specific to fundamental concerns recurrently addressed by visual artists, yet broad enough to allow for approaches deploying a variety of methodologies and reflecting a range of interests.For this purpose, by relocating from a normal studio environment to the more spacious provision of the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, and from the individualism of personally-centred practices to a more collective endeavour and shared discourse, the prospects for extending the limits of the subject (Fine Art) as a whole were potentially enhanced. Each of the over-arching themes was further inflected by talks and demonstrations from both Slade staff and external contributors (such as Dominic Tinley or the cognitive neuro-scientist Dan Glaser from the Wellcome Institute), where there was an identifiable overlap with their own research.Each session was completed with a concluding discussion to view and evaluate the work produced. The ethos of a workshop environment allowed the participants time, space and opportunity to produce either finished works or to lay the foundations for future development without any immediate pressure to arrive at a fully-resolved conclusion. The images and other information in the publication below are evidence of these outcomes, and constitute a sample of results rather than a comprehensive collection.Project was published by Slade Press: Speed, Light, Time/Colour, Scale, Space: A Two-Part Programme of Graduate Research.The Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, has hosted collaborations and events involving researchers from many different fields, from the Slade School of Fine Art and UCL, as well as researchers and practitioners from the wider community nationally and internationally.The Slade Research Centre is also used by all our courses from undergraduate through to masters and doctoral level to facilitate our students and help them develop their ambitions as artists and researchers of the future. One of the aims of the Slade Research Centre is to encourage and teach our students to make museum standard work, and in doing so to strive towards and achieve artistic research of the highest level.This publication represents the work of MFA and MA students across all three areas of the graduate programme: Painting, Sculpture and Fine Art Media. The aim was to present research themes, which could be productively explored in the space; basic notions which continually inform the production of art, and hence are key to the development of artistic research:Weight Water Touch Body Land AirFine Art is about the exploration of the visual, the physical, the aural; in short the sensory world. Fine Art’s continual conversation with design, with architecture, with fashion, with the development of culture and their related industries is often overlooked. Virtually everything you see around you has been made by some one who went to art school, often working with experts in other fields. A central aim of the Slade Research Centre is to support brilliant emerging artists and in doing so construct the thinking which will allow them to engage positively with other disciplines.There are constant themes and continuing questions which run through artistic practice. However the exploration of these themes, questions and ideas change. While the context and materials are subject to change, new artists also bring new questions and answers, interrogating these issues in new ways.An art school, and one situated in one of the worlds great research universities, is here to question existing paradigms and to enable new approaches, supporting our students to invent the art of the future.It has been an exciting year. The publication represents a range of experimentation, risk, and the spirit of ambition, collaboration and discussion which all participate in the production of excellent work.We would like to thank everyone who has made this possible. This is a whole school effort, all the students, all the staff within both the Slade and UCL who have so generously supported us, as well as all the artists and researchers from outside the university who have engaged with our debates, and who have given so generously of their time and expertise to help us achieve our aims. Art is a social activity, it is about action and communication. Thanks also to all the friends and family who have supported our work, and to Martin John Callanan for editing and designing the publication.Edward Allington, Head of Graduate studies, Head of Graduate SculptureLisa Milroy, Head Of Graduate PaintingJayne Parker, Head of Graduate Fine Art MediaPostgraduate Research 2011 publicationGraduate Research Weeks are held at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, and provide MFA and MA students across all three areas, Painting, Sculpture and Fine Art Media, the opportunity to explore an aspect of their work under a particular research theme, which can be imaginatively developed in the unique studio space of the Centre. The research themes involve basic notions that continually inform the activity of art-making, and hence are key to the development of artistic research.The research themes this academic year:Colour  Material  Body  Extra-Large Light and ShadowThe continual conversation of Fine Art with design, architecture, fashion, and the development of culture and its related industries is often overlooked. Much of what we see around us has been made by some one who went to art school, often working with experts in other fields. The Slade Research Centre and Graduate Research Weeks support emerging artists in providing a forum to help construct the thinking which will allow them to engage positively with other disciplines. In light of exploring the constant themes that run through artistic practice, related questions and ideas shift and change. Context and materials change too, and through this dynamic, artists bring new questions and answers to the fore, interrogating familiar issues in new and different ways. Art school, and one situated in one of the world’s great research universities, is here to explore and question existing paradigms, foster innovative research and enable new approaches to thinking and making.This e-publication represents a selection of the work of MFA and MA students who participated in one or more of this year’s Graduate Research Weeks. It demonstrates a range of experimentation, collaboration and discussion, and reflects the spirit of ambition and enthusiasm that has energised the programme. We would like to thank everyone involved, the students and staff within both the Slade and UCL, as well as the artists and researchers from outside the university who have engaged in our debates and given so generously of their time and expertise to help us achieve our aims.Thank you to Martin John Callanan for editing and designing the publication.Edward Allington, Director of Graduate Studies. Head of Graduate SculptureLisa Milroy, Head of Graduate PaintingJayne Parker, Head of Graduate Fine Art Media Graduate Research 2012The Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, has hosted collaborations and events involving researchers from many different fields from the Slade and UCL, as well as from the wider community, both national and international. One of the aims of the Slade Research Centre is to encourage and teach students to create artworks of the highest quality, to help them develop and achieve their ambitions as artists, and in so doing to engage in artistic research at the highest level. The Slade Research Centre is used by all our programmes, including undergraduate, graduate and doctorate.Graduate Research Weeks are held at the Slade Research Centre and provide MFA and MA students across all three areas, Painting, Sculpture and Fine Art Media, the opportunity to explore an aspect of their work under a particular research theme, which can be imaginatively developed in the unique studio space of the Centre. The research themes involve basic notions that continually inform the activity of art-making, and hence are key to the development of artistic research. The research themes this academic year were:Drawing ColourBigBodyThe continual conversation of Fine Art with design, architecture, fashion, and the development of culture and its related industries is often overlooked. Much of what we see around us has been made by someone who went to art school, often working with experts in other fields. The Slade Research Centre and Graduate Research Weeks support emerging artists in providing a forum to help construct the thinking which will allow them to engage positively with other disciplines. In light of exploring the constant themes that run through artistic practice, related questions and ideas shift and change. Context and materials change too, and through this dynamic, artists bring new questions and answers to the fore, interrogating familiar issues in new and different ways. Art school, and one situated in one of the world’s great research universities, is here to explore and question existing paradigms, foster innovative research and enable new approaches to thinking and making.This e-publication represents a selection of the work of MFA and MA students who participated in one or more of this year’s Graduate Research Weeks. It demonstrates a range of experimentation, collaboration and discussion, and reflects the spirit of ambition and enthusiasm that has energised the programme. We would like to thank everyone involved, the students and staff within both the Slade and UCL, as well as the artists and researchers from outside the university who have engaged in our debates and given so generously of their time and expertise to help us achieve our aims. A very special thanks goes to Professor Christopher Dean of the Department of Cell and Developmental Biology and Dr. Wendy Birch of Anatomy & Developmental Biology in their support of Body Week. Students benefitted enormously from drawing sessions in the Dissection Room of the Anatomy Department, an initiative spearheaded by Professor Edward Allington.Jayne Parker, Head of Fine Art Media, Director of Graduate StudiesLisa Milroy, Head of Graduate PaintingProfessor Edward Allington, Head of Graduate SculptureGraduate Research 2013 publicationDifference or Sociality was a student led research project centred around the text ‘Difference or Sociality’ by Scott Lash, written in 1996 for symposium at the Jan Van Eyck Academie called ‘Towards a theory of the image’.This text was given to a number of students in Fine Art Media by tutor Klaas Hoek in response to seeing our work, and became a clear point of reference and connection between our practices. The text ‘Difference or Sociality’ begins with an analysis of Marshall McLuhan’s ‘the medium is the message’ as a way to rethink the politics of how images are received by the viewer and discusses the potential of the politics of representation moving away from ‘difference’ and towards ‘sociality’.We organised a week of research at The Slade Research Centre, developing existing and new works that touched on and related to ideas within this text. On the last day of our research week we organised a crit with other students from our department, Klaas Hoek, Joy Sleeman and invited writer and art historian Tom Snow to contribute to the discussion.Graduate Research 2014 - Difference and Sociality (pdf)The Slade Research Centre in Woburn Square hosts collaborations and events that involve researchers from many different fields from the Slade and UCL, as well as from the wider community, national and international. One of the aims of the Slade Research Centre is to encourage and teach students to create artworks of the highest quality, to help them develop and achieve their ambitions as artists, and in so doing to engage in artistic research at the highest level. The Slade Research Centre is used by all our programmes, including undergraduate, graduate and doctorate.Graduate Research Weeks are held at the Slade Research Centre in the Autumn and Spring Terms and provide MFA and MA students across all three areas, Painting, Sculpture and Fine Art Media, the opportunity to explore an aspect of their work under a particular research theme, which can be imaginatively developed in the unique studio space of the Centre. The research themes involve basic notions that continually inform the activity of art-making, and hence are key to the development of artistic research. The research themes this academic year, 2013/14, are:Colour ProjectionBodyThe continual conversation of Fine Art with design, architecture, fashion, and the development of culture and its related industries is often overlooked. Much of what we see around us has been made by someone who went to art school, often working with experts in other fields. The Slade Research Centre and Graduate Research Weeks support emerging artists in providing a forum to help construct the thinking and making which will allow them to engage positively with other disciplines. In light of exploring the constant themes that run through artistic practice, related questions and ideas shift and change. Context and materials change too, and through this dynamic, artists bring new questions and answers to the fore, interrogating familiar issues in new and different ways, and fostering innovative research.This e-book represents a selection of the work of MFA and MA students who participated in one or more of this year’s Graduate Research Weeks. It demonstrates a range of experimentation, collaboration and discussion, and reflects the spirit of ambition and enthusiasm that has energised the programme. We would like to thank everyone involved, the students and staff within the Slade and UCL, as well as the artists and researchers from outside the university who have engaged in our debates and given so generously of their time and expertise to help us achieve our aims. Special thanks goes to Professor Chris Dean and Dr. Wendy Birch, UCL Anatomy for their generous support in hosting Anatomical Drawing for Slade students in conjunction with “Body Week”.Jayne Parker Director of Graduate Studies, Head of Graduate Fine Art MediaLisa Milroy Head of Graduate PaintingEdward Allington Head of Graduate SculptureGraduate Research 2014 - Drawing, Colour, Projection, Body (pdf)The Slade Research Centre in Woburn Square hosts collaborations and events that involve researchers from many different fields, from the Slade and UCL as well as from the wider national and international community. One of the aims of the Slade Research Centre is to encourage and teach students to create artworks of the highest quality, to help them develop and achieve their ambitions as artists, and in so doing to engage in artistic research at the highest level.The Slade Research Centre is used by all our programmes, including undergraduate, graduate and doctorate. Graduate Research Weeks are held at the Slade Research Centre in the Autumn and Spring Terms and provide MFA, MA and PhD students across all three areas, Painting, Sculpture and Fine Art Media, the opportunity to explore an aspect of their work under a particular research theme, which can be imaginatively developed in the unique studio space of the Centre.The research themes involve basic notions that continually inform the activity of art- making, and hence are key to the development of artistic research.The research themes for the academic year 2014/15 are:BodyColourScaleSoundThe continual conversation of Fine Art with design, architecture, fashion, and the development of culture and its related industries is often overlooked. Much of what we see around us has been made by someone who went to art school, often working with experts in other fields.The Slade Research Centre and Graduate Research Weeks support emerging artists in providing a forum to help construct the thinking and making which will allow them to engage positively with other disciplines.In light of exploring the constant themes that run through artistic practice, related questions and ideas shift and change. Context and materials change too, and through this dynamic, artists bring new questions and answers to the fore, interrogating familiar issues in new and different ways, and fostering innovative research.This e-book represents a selection of the work of MFA, MA and PhD students who participated in one or more of this year’s Graduate Research Weeks. It demonstrates a range of experimentation, collaboration and discussion, and reflects the spirit of ambition and enthusiasm that has energised the programme.We would like to thank everyone involved, the students and staff within the Slade and UCL, as well as the artists and researchers from outside the university who have engaged in our debates and given so generously of their time and expertise to help us achieve our aims. Special thanks goes to Professor Chris Dean and Dr. Wendy Birch, UCL Anatomy for their generous support in hosting Anatomical Drawing for Slade students in conjunction with “Body Week”.Thank you to Patrick White for editing and designing this year’s Graduate Research Weeks e-book.Lisa Milroy, Director of Graduate Studies and Head of Graduate PaintingJayne Parker, Head of Graduate Fine Art MediaProfessor Edward Allington, Head of Graduate SculptureGraduate Research 2015 (pdf)The Slade Research Centre in Woburn Square hosts collaborations and events that involve researchers from many different fields, from the Slade and UCL as well as from the wider national and international community. One of the aims of the Slade Research Centre is to encourage and teach students to create artworks of the highest quality, to help them develop and achieve their ambitions as artists, and in so doing to engage in artistic research at the highest level.The Slade Research Centre is used by students on all our programmes, including undergraduate, graduate and doctorate. Graduate Research Weeks are held at the Slade Research Centre in the Autumn and Spring Terms and provide MFA, MA and PhD students across all three areas, Painting, Sculpture and Fine Art Media, the opportunity to explore an aspect of their work under a particular research theme, which can be imaginatively developed in the unique studio space of the Centre.The research themes involve basic notions that continually inform the activity of making art, and hence are key to the development of artistic research.The research themes for the academic year 2015/16 were: Body, Colour, Drawing, Scale.The continual conversation of Fine Art with design, architecture, fashion, and the development of culture and its related industries is often overlooked. Much of what we see around us has been made by someone who went to art school, often working with experts in other fields.The Slade Research Centre and Graduate Research Weeks support emerging artists in providing a forum to help construct the thinking and making which will allow them to engage positively with other disciplines. In light of exploring the constant themes that run through artistic practice, related questions and ideas shift and change. Context and materials change too, and through this dynamic, artists bring new questions and answers to the fore, interrogating familiar issues in new and different ways, and fostering innovative research.This e-book represents a selection of the work of MFA, MA and PhD students who participated in one or more of this year’s Graduate Research Weeks during the 2015/16 academic year. It demonstrates a range of experimentation, collaboration and discussion, and reflects the spirit of ambition and enthusiasm that has energised the programme.We would like to thank everyone involved, the students and staff within the Slade and UCL, as well as the artists and researchers from outside the university who have engaged in our debates and given so generously of their time and expertise to help us achieve our aims. Special thanks goes to Professor Edward Allington for leading “Body Week”, and to Professor Chris Dean and Dr. Wendy Birch, UCL Anatomy for their generous support in hosting Anatomical Drawing for Slade students in conjunction with “Body Week”.Thank you to Patrick White for editing and designing this year’s Graduate Research Weeks e-book.Lisa Milroy, Director of Graduate Studies and Head of Graduate PaintingJayne Parker, Head of Graduate Fine Art MediaKarin Ruggaber, Acting Head of Graduate SculptureDownloadGraduate Research Weeks 2015 - 2016 (full version pdf 15MB)The Slade Research Centre in Woburn Square hosts collaborations and events that involve researchers from many different fields, from the Slade and UCL as well as from the wider national and international community. One of the aims of the Slade Research Centre is to encourage and teach students to create artworks of the highest quality, to help them develop and achieve their ambitions as artists, and in so doing to engage in artistic research at the highest level.The Slade Research Centre is used by students on all our programmes, including undergraduate, graduate and doctorate. Graduate Research Weeks are held at the Slade Research Centre in the Autumn and Spring Terms and provide MFA, MA and PhD students across all three areas, Painting, Sculpture and Fine Art Media, the opportunity to explore an aspect of their work under a particular research theme, which can be imaginatively developed in the unique studio space of the Centre.The research themes involve basic notions that continually inform the activity of making art, and hence are key to the development of artistic research.The research themes for the academic year 2016/17 are:Space - 24 - 28 October 2016Collaboration - 14 - 18 - November 2016Body - 30 January - 3 February 2017Voice - 6 - 10 March 2017The continual conversation of Fine Art with design, architecture, fashion, and the development of culture and its related industries is often overlooked. Much of what we see around us has been made by someone who went to art school, often working with experts in other elds.The Slade Research Centre and Graduate Research Weeks support emerging artists in providing a forum to help construct the thinking and making which will allow them to engage positively with other disciplines. In light of exploring the constant themes that run through artistic practice, related questions and ideas shift and change. Context and materials change too, and through this dynamic, artists bring new questions and answers to the fore, interrogating familiar issues in new and di erent ways, and fostering innovative research.This e-book represents a selection of the work of MFA, MA and PhD students who participated in one or more of this year’s Graduate Research Weeks during the 2016/17 academic year. It demonstrates a range of experimentation, collaboration and discussion, and re ects the spirit of ambition and enthusiasm that has energised the programme.We would like to thank everyone involved, the students and sta within the Slade and UCL, as well as the artists and researchers from outside the university who have engaged in our debates and given so generously of their time and expertise to help us achieve our aims.Thank you to Patrick White for editing and designing this year’s Graduate Research Weeks e-book.Jayne Parker, Director of Graduate Studies, Head of Graduate Fine Art MediaLisa Milroy, Head of Graduate PaintingKarin Ruggaber, Head of Graduate SculptureDownloadGraduate Research 2016 - 17 (5MB)The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter.Easter courses are taught by practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own practise after completing the course. There is a lively, creative dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithShort Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. The Life Painting course fee
includes a £5 levy which covers a supply of supports and grounds for studies
but not your final canvas. You must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 oremail sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith Evening courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The fees for the Drawing and Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for supports and grounds (paper, canvas boards) and some wet materials and painting mediums. You will be sent a materials list with your course letter which outlines the materials we supply, and you must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra SmithEaster courses are taught by practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own practise after completing the course. There is a lively, creative dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithShort Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. The Life Painting course fee
includes a £5 levy which covers a supply of supports and grounds for studies
but not your final canvas. You must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 oremail sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Evening courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The fees for the Drawing and Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for supports and grounds (paper, canvas boards) and some wet materials and painting mediums. You will be sent a materials list with your course letter which outlines the materials we supply, and you must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Saturday courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.If you would like to be added to our mailing list, please 
contact sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. Who should take this course? This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithThis course is designed to extend your core skills in drawing towards composing paintings. It is structured to provide students with a series of practical strategies that help you to translate your own ideas and imagery into painted compositions. We begin with exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at objects and their qualities. These drawings are then translated from tone and line into colour, from one surface and scale to another, enriched by the introduction of secondary sources and composed by organising the pictorial space. Students will learn to extrapolate subject matter from their own preparatory material such as sketches, photographic documentation, objects and text. Who should take this course? This course suits beginners, or those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting, as well as students who have learnt first principles on the Autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting and wish to develop work towards their own ideas.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: HB and 2B pencils, charcoal, India rubber, Masking tape, Sketchbook (recommended). A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre yellow ochre. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith This course gives students the
opportunity to explore core drawing skills. We will use drawing as a means of
articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore
and nurture ideas through drawing and as inspiration for their own art
practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual
enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The five
sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line,
composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective.
Students will also have the opportunity to draw from a life model in the third session. They will
experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink,
white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage
with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring
the following materials for the first session: Range of pencils 2h –
6b

Erasers (putty and tablet)

1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped pen

Lightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)

Masking tape

Knife/Pencil sharpener
 Sketchbook (recommended) We will provide
paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow
charcoal.
 
 N.B. You
will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been
confirmed.Course
Tutors Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith  This course offers students the
opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to
look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression
and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the
starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human
figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the
course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of
representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within
the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions
will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning
the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition.
The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can
work with oils or acrylic.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.    You will need to bring the following materials: Masking tape

Paints (oils or acrylics) 

Odourless thinners (for oil paints)

Retarding medium (for acrylic paints)

Brushes

Palette knives

Screw Top Jar

Rags or kitchen roll

Sketchbook (recommended)
  We will provide easels, palettes, primer,
gum strip, oil painting paper, painting mediums, supports (wooden panels,
canvas boards and canvasses) and white spirit.
 
  N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking
has been confirmed.   Course Tutors Daniel PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith  Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.  The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. You must supply all other materials yourself.  Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course.  Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins.  Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.    The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time.  Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby.  Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.   Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.  The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.uk This unique artist led course provides an innovative platform across one week for students to expand their experience of creative ways to develop photography. It questions the limits and definition of Photography. It offers a sustained period of time experimenting with work in darkrooms and alternative spaces. These experiments are supported and informed by slide talks, seminars and the sharing of research. The aim is to encourage fresh and individual experiments of student’s ideas. We welcome artists, photographers, scientists and any one who has a creative interest in the medium. ‘The Larder and the Banquet’ as an extension of (Part.1) ‘The Kitchen and the Table’ is a workshop based in an exploration of mediums, resources and concepts. Part.2 is a production week where you implement your ideas.  You can also attend Part.2 independently by sending a brief portfolio (max. 10 images) of your work and a motivation letter (max. 300 words). The motivation letter should explain your interests and describe the work you want to develop (demonstrate your work mediums). The spirit of enquiry fostered in this new course grew out of an significant body of research developed by Alfonso Borragán in collaboration with Esther Llorca and made manifest in a series of workshops conducted over the last six years with a wide number of students. It seeks to re-address the speculative origins of photography in order to discuss and experiment with the future possibilities of the medium.  This workshop is an immersive collective research space for students to develop their practice. This ‘creative laboratory’ provides support to experiment and research in order to stretch the limits of your work. From day 1 and throughout the week, the workshop will be driven by your personal investigation, underpinned by group discussions and tutorials. The aim is that this combination of practical research with critical debate will amplify and deepen your interests, techniques and a conceptual framework within the medium.  The workshop will be developed between the darkroom, the studio and outdoors. The school will provide basic materials and chemicals for alternative processes, but if you want to work with a very specific medium you will need to bring your own materials. A notable contribution to the workshops and seminars on this course is that they take place within the interdisciplinary context of UCL, enabling contact with and visits to relevant specialised scientific departments. The nature of Photography is confined by narrow, formalised definitions. Photography developed quickly into a visual representational system to copy reality and endure memory. From the ‘Albumen Prints’ to the ‘Daguerreotypes’, photography became a chemical conquest of mechanical reproduction systems. Furthermore it became a race against time, where cameras and photosensitive emulsions become fast apparatuses to capture small fragments of time. In this process the loss of the Camera Lucida and latent images, such as Anthotypes, are clear examples of the limitations. This modern dream disregards in its development every technique or technology that is not useful for its intentions. The complexity and linearity of the history of Photography shows once again the loss of the ‘non-productive’ mediums. The materiality of photography resides in its capacity to capture light. Here we can consider not only visible light, but also the Physics of light that refers to the electromagnetic radiation of any wavelength. This expands the material idea of photography and the understanding of the image. Thus, it transforms physical and conceptual qualities of photography to a record of traces. The flat surface becomes a deep surface with different layers exposed to forensic readings.  Here we can consider a ‘proto-photography’ that explores all these forgotten technologies and creates new ones to situate them in the future. We will examine the potentiality of the medium as an experimentation tool in itself. To understand photography as a representational tool, we need to re-consider photography as a material. This workshop aims to open a discussion and apply this to producing work that addresses an expanded understanding of photography. Through darkroom processes, with chemicals, light and as many materials as we can consider for experimentation, followed by a carefully supported look at the results, we will discover possibilities for new ideas and new works. The aim is that the participants will develop a body of work or series of experiments that can serve starting as a point for future projects. The work produced during this week would be suitable for students who want to put together a portfolio for application for further study of Fine Art photography. For artists, scientists and photographers who wish to use this forum as an intense, supportive experience to question both intellectually and physically the nature of the medium, the course will result in a concrete body of work to reference and build upon for continued individual experimentation.  Alfonso Borragán has been investigating along edges of photography for the last 15 years. His work can be interpreted as the development and tracking of an irreproducible experience. As a photographer he considers the experience non-transferable. The work uses supports able to decay, organic materials that are liable to change their grammar and mutate the work to new experiences again and again. Hence, he understands photography as a mutable and flexible surface. During this time he has been leading numerous experimental workshops as Light Hunters in Hangar Barcelona, Nomadic Food at Plataforma Bogotá or Expanded Photosensibility at London College of Communication.  1. Check www.alfonsoborragan.com for further information.2. Please contact Alfonso with some images of your work, and to discuss details regarding your experience of photography and suitability for Part 2 of this course. If you are planning to bring in any potentially hazardous materials, please also discuss this first with your tutor.3. Albumen prints were the first commercially exploitable method of producing a photographic print on a paper base from a negative and the dominant form of photographic positives in the mid 19th century. The invention was published in 1847 by Louis Désiré Blanquart-Evrard. This emulsion uses the albumen found in egg whites, salt and silver. 4. Daguerrotype was probably the most prolific photographic process in the 19th. However it was a very expensive and complex process, around 1870 it was replaced by cheaper and reproducible processes. It was invented by Louis Jaques-Mandé Daguerre and introduced worldwide in 1839. Each daguerreotype is a unique positive image on a silvered copper plate mirror-like surface. The daguerreotype is one of the most accurate, detailed and sharp photographic images even produced.  5. Anthotype is probably the first intuitive photographic process. However it was not named and published until 1842 by Sir John Herschel. It produces photographic images by using photosensitive material, as chlorophyll and anthocyanin, from plants.  Saturday courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.If you would like to be added to our mailing list, please 
contact sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. Who should take this course? This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithThis course is designed to extend your core skills in drawing towards composing paintings. It is structured to provide students with a series of practical strategies that help you to translate your own ideas and imagery into painted compositions. We begin with exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at objects and their qualities. These drawings are then translated from tone and line into colour, from one surface and scale to another, enriched by the introduction of secondary sources and composed by organising the pictorial space. Students will learn to extrapolate subject matter from their own preparatory material such as sketches, photographic documentation, objects and text. Who should take this course? This course suits beginners, or those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting, as well as students who have learnt first principles on the Autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting and wish to develop work towards their own ideas.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: HB and 2B pencils, charcoal, India rubber, Masking tape, Sketchbook (recommended). A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre yellow ochre. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith This course gives students the
opportunity to explore core drawing skills. We will use drawing as a means of
articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore
and nurture ideas through drawing and as inspiration for their own art
practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual
enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The five
sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line,
composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective.
Students will also have the opportunity to draw from a life model in the third session. They will
experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink,
white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage
with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring
the following materials for the first session: Range of pencils 2h –
6b

Erasers (putty and tablet)

1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped pen

Lightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)

Masking tape

Knife/Pencil sharpener
 Sketchbook (recommended) We will provide
paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow
charcoal.
 
 N.B. You
will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been
confirmed.Course
Tutors Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith  This course offers students the
opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to
look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression
and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the
starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human
figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the
course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of
representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within
the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions
will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning
the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition.
The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can
work with oils or acrylic.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.    You will need to bring the following materials: Masking tape

Paints (oils or acrylics) 

Odourless thinners (for oil paints)

Retarding medium (for acrylic paints)

Brushes

Palette knives

Screw Top Jar

Rags or kitchen roll

Sketchbook (recommended)
  We will provide easels, palettes, primer,
gum strip, oil painting paper, painting mediums, supports (wooden panels,
canvas boards and canvasses) and white spirit.
 
  N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking
has been confirmed.   Course Tutors Daniel PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith  Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.  The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. You must supply all other materials yourself.  Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course.  Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins.  Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.    The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time.  Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby.  Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.   Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.  The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
 Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.ukYour browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
The page you have requested could not be found. It is possible you have followed an old or invalid link.To find what you are looking for please use the search function or browse through the site using the navigation items on the left hand side.Listen here to the ongoing series of radio programs made by The Slade Occupation for Resonance 104.4fm. The program is a platform for people’s audio artworks, music, current affairs features, talking, readings and other miscellaneous sounds, and represents a weekly aural glimpse into the inner workings of the school. The program is broadcast every Tuesday afternoon at 5.00pm and also streamed online. Listen live online at the Resonance 104.4fm website. Click on the play icons below for a download option.JuneSlade Transmissions 14/6/11
Claire and Tom set off to talk on the phone. Alan misses his  fishes. People are told to get out of Wimbledon. The show is then  massively hijacked by Tom’s trip to Croydon. Wind. Vibrant. Damp  Coconuts.–
Slade Transmissions 7/2/11This Tuesday at 5 o’clock is cheese o’clock: A cheesy study into cheesy music with Dante Rendle Traynor.
MaySlade Transmissions 31/5/11Vanessa Visual and Virginia Verbal take you on an ekphrastic tour of Charleston House in East Sussex where Vanessa and Clive Bell and Duncan Grant lived and worked.–
 Slade Transmissions 24/5/11In a follow-up to the 22nd of March program, Ellen Kim and Will Saunders discuss issues surrounding art school admissions policies, fees, and seminars.–Slade Transmissions 17/5/11What do you get when you mix Howlin’ Wolf, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor, Nick Hart, music, politics, Arthur Prior, Dantella, writing, Ambar Sethi, laughter, Will Saunders, and backwards? This.–Slade Transmissions 11/5/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar and special guest Mosie talk about love, music and everything in between.–Slade Transmissions 3/5/11Will Saunders and Dante Rendle Traynor discuss the practice of ‘gibberish’.
April Slade Transmissions 26/4/11Bill McCool presents tracks from his ‘Concentrated’ collection. Produced by Will Saunders–Slade Transmissions 19/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 2)
–Slade Transmissions 12/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 1)
–Slade Transmissions 5/4/11A bunged up Ian Chan breathes for half an hour.
March Slade Transmissions 29/3/11Lecture/performance given by artist Merlin Carpenter at The Slade, with ‘interventions’ by students at the school.–Slade Transmissions 22/3/11Short stories, skits, rants, laments and jingles. With coverage from the UCL occupation of the registry and the UCU strike. Written, read and produced by Nina Prader, Tom Rees, Ambar Sethi, Harriet Poznansky, Arthur Prior, Zou Zhoa, Michael Lewis and an anonymous caller.–Slade Transmissions 15/3/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar presents a program on love, life and everything in between and plays some of her favourite music.–Slade Transmissions 1/3/11Aaron Angell presents: ‘Unknown artists, unknown tracks’.
February Slade Transmissions 22/2/11Will Saunders reads his controversial ‘Thoughts on Art School’, followed by an absurdist Resonance FM studio improvisation by Slade students. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 15/2/11Special feature on the ‘Platform 1’ event held at The Bloomsbury Theatre on the 2nd/3rd of February. Featuring work by Ellen Kim, Tom Clark, Lily Hawkes, Sophie Rose Askwith, Tom Rees and Jennifer Martin, along with “technical commentary” featuring Eve, Steve and Andreas. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Clark.–Slade Transmissions 8/2/11Coverage of the ‘Arts Against Cuts’ British Museum teach in and work made by and given to Slade students. With Simon Werner, Gamaliel Rendle Traynor’s quartet, Claire Boyd, Dante Rendle Traynor, The Voolas, Tom Rees and The Golden Boys. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
JanuarySlade Transmissions 25/1/11Coverage of the continuing student demonstrations in the new year and work made by and given to Slade students. With ‘Ben’, Simon Werner, The Versatile Dreamers, eccentric performer Hugh Hughes, The Golden Boys, Laura Cooper, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor and Gamaliel Rendle Traynor. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
DecemberSlade Transmissions 15/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Coverage of the Slade occupation, the student demonstrations and work made by Slade staff and students inside the occupation. With Gary Woodley, Lauren Godfrey, Claire Boyd, RCA Students, Dante Rendle Traynor, Sharon Morris, Aaron Angell and Sophie Rose Askwith. Also featuring The Slade School re-performing Slade’s 1973 festive hit ‘Merry Xmas Everybody’. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 8/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Intimate coverage of the Slade School Of Fine Art going into occupation and the student movement behind it. With Tom Clark, Sophie Lee, Mark MacGowan, Aaron Angell, Alex Springer, Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Rees. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.Soho Calls (5.15)The name “Soho” derives from an old English hunting call, an adaption of ‘Seeho’ which in old hunting lingo means ‘seen a hare’. In Soho calls, six female performers re-enact a hunt, communicating with their voices alone and the non-linguistic sounds of ancient hunting calls. A sound arrangement develops in the public space of Soho, specifically up and around Rupert St, which leads to Berwick street and market. The hunting calls are juxtaposed with the pre-existing urban sound environment and creating an alternative kind of hunting ritual.Laura is in the postgraduate media department at the Slade.Staff and students during the Slade Occupation perform a version of Slade’s 1973 festive hit, ‘Merry Xmas Everybody!’Click on the play button below to download the track:
Merry Xmas Everybody! (3:46)With the permission and encouragement of Noddy Holder and management.
The work is called Experiment for a Monument and is was made for FEM 10 festival in Girona, Spain, 2010.
All images by Gresol / Ana Rita Rodrigues.“I walk the length of the street folding sheets of A4 into paper aeroplanes. I hold them up to the sky, but instead of throwing them, let them fall to the pavement.”Duration: ten minutes.Holly graduated from the Slade MFA in 2010, Degree Show website.
For further information and work see http://www.hollyslingsby.com/Martin Luther King 28.08.1963 (Extract)Adolf Hitler 1934 (Extract)Hirohito (Emperor Showa) 15.08.1945 (Extract)Mahatma Gandhi 17.10.1931 (Extract)Diana Frances Spencer 09.08.1993Mixed Media / Sound Installation
2009Junko’s sigh

Bridge, String, Melon
watermelon, string, bridge, valleySite-specific installation: Watermelon suspended on a string from a road bridge near Rethymnon, Crete.
The traffic on the road over the bridge, and the wind blowing through the valley made the string vibrate and sing.This work was made whilst on the Slade Utopia Residency in Crete.
E75 road bridge and valley, Rethymnon, Crete, Greece, July 2009Melis graduated from the Slade MFA in 2009. Degree Show website.
For further information and work see http://www.melisvandenberg.com/.It Was Gravity Which Pulled Us Down – performance documentation from Holly Slingsby on Vimeo.‘It Was Gravity Which Pulled Us Down’ was a performance made especially for Christ Church Spitalfields in 2009. The work juxtaposes live and videoed action. The live performance consisted of gestures of lifting deflated balloons. This was contradicted by the videoed gesture seen with it, of dropping a handful of ash. The naively hopeful act of lifting the balloons – as if they might float again – is in direct disagreement with the melancholy release of the ash.Holly is a currently completing her MFA in Media, look out for her degree show this summer.The Voice and Nothing More, January 2009, was a week-long festival exploring the voice as both medium and subject matter in contemporary arts practices. Both established and emerging artists worked with leading vocal performers and composers in an exploration of the voice outside language.Invited performers included Mikhail Karikis, Lore Lixembourg and Juice, as well as a specially formed large-scale vocal ensemble.
Performers, working with the artists and resident composer Claudia Molitor created new score-objects that culminated in a series of new performances. Artists included Martin Creed, Cornelia Parker, Estelle Thompson and Bruce Mclean.Video: Kathryn Faulkner and Robin Sewell
Editing: Sam BelinfanteCurated by Sam Belinfante and Neil Luck.For more information, images and press please go to the Voice and Nothing More website.Cheek to CheekI had each of my six family members (and myself) sing Irving Berlin’s song “Cheek To Cheek,” from the 1935 film Top Hat. I recorded each of us separately singing the song to completion at our own paces.  Then I overlapped the seven tracks so that we are all singing it together, as a family unit, made up of individuals. It perfectly demonstrates the push and pull affect I am trying to create within my art, of the subjects being so happy together that they are in heavenly bliss, while at the same time there is something unbearably uncomfortable, out of sync, and wrong. The installation of this sound work exists within a domestic setting, and all of the tracks are played simultaneously out of one Gramophone horn.Allison graduated from the Slade MFA in 2009. Degree Show website.
For further information and work see allisonmaletz.com.The Slade School of Fine Art - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 231 - Copyright © 1996-2009 UCLListen here to the ongoing series of radio programs made by The Slade Occupation for Resonance 104.4fm. The program is a platform for people’s audio artworks, music, current affairs features, talking, readings and other miscellaneous sounds, and represents a weekly aural glimpse into the inner workings of the school. The program is broadcast every Tuesday afternoon at 5.00pm and also streamed online. Listen live online at the Resonance 104.4fm website. Click on the play icons below for a download option.JuneSlade Transmissions 14/6/11
Claire and Tom set off to talk on the phone. Alan misses his  fishes. People are told to get out of Wimbledon. The show is then  massively hijacked by Tom’s trip to Croydon. Wind. Vibrant. Damp  Coconuts.–
Slade Transmissions 7/2/11This Tuesday at 5 o’clock is cheese o’clock: A cheesy study into cheesy music with Dante Rendle Traynor.
MaySlade Transmissions 31/5/11Vanessa Visual and Virginia Verbal take you on an ekphrastic tour of Charleston House in East Sussex where Vanessa and Clive Bell and Duncan Grant lived and worked.–
 Slade Transmissions 24/5/11In a follow-up to the 22nd of March program, Ellen Kim and Will Saunders discuss issues surrounding art school admissions policies, fees, and seminars.–Slade Transmissions 17/5/11What do you get when you mix Howlin’ Wolf, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor, Nick Hart, music, politics, Arthur Prior, Dantella, writing, Ambar Sethi, laughter, Will Saunders, and backwards? This.–Slade Transmissions 11/5/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar and special guest Mosie talk about love, music and everything in between.–Slade Transmissions 3/5/11Will Saunders and Dante Rendle Traynor discuss the practice of ‘gibberish’.
April Slade Transmissions 26/4/11Bill McCool presents tracks from his ‘Concentrated’ collection. Produced by Will Saunders–Slade Transmissions 19/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 2)
–Slade Transmissions 12/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 1)
–Slade Transmissions 5/4/11A bunged up Ian Chan breathes for half an hour.
March Slade Transmissions 29/3/11Lecture/performance given by artist Merlin Carpenter at The Slade, with ‘interventions’ by students at the school.–Slade Transmissions 22/3/11Short stories, skits, rants, laments and jingles. With coverage from the UCL occupation of the registry and the UCU strike. Written, read and produced by Nina Prader, Tom Rees, Ambar Sethi, Harriet Poznansky, Arthur Prior, Zou Zhoa, Michael Lewis and an anonymous caller.–Slade Transmissions 15/3/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar presents a program on love, life and everything in between and plays some of her favourite music.–Slade Transmissions 1/3/11Aaron Angell presents: ‘Unknown artists, unknown tracks’.
February Slade Transmissions 22/2/11Will Saunders reads his controversial ‘Thoughts on Art School’, followed by an absurdist Resonance FM studio improvisation by Slade students. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 15/2/11Special feature on the ‘Platform 1’ event held at The Bloomsbury Theatre on the 2nd/3rd of February. Featuring work by Ellen Kim, Tom Clark, Lily Hawkes, Sophie Rose Askwith, Tom Rees and Jennifer Martin, along with “technical commentary” featuring Eve, Steve and Andreas. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Clark.–Slade Transmissions 8/2/11Coverage of the ‘Arts Against Cuts’ British Museum teach in and work made by and given to Slade students. With Simon Werner, Gamaliel Rendle Traynor’s quartet, Claire Boyd, Dante Rendle Traynor, The Voolas, Tom Rees and The Golden Boys. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
JanuarySlade Transmissions 25/1/11Coverage of the continuing student demonstrations in the new year and work made by and given to Slade students. With ‘Ben’, Simon Werner, The Versatile Dreamers, eccentric performer Hugh Hughes, The Golden Boys, Laura Cooper, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor and Gamaliel Rendle Traynor. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
DecemberSlade Transmissions 15/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Coverage of the Slade occupation, the student demonstrations and work made by Slade staff and students inside the occupation. With Gary Woodley, Lauren Godfrey, Claire Boyd, RCA Students, Dante Rendle Traynor, Sharon Morris, Aaron Angell and Sophie Rose Askwith. Also featuring The Slade School re-performing Slade’s 1973 festive hit ‘Merry Xmas Everybody’. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 8/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Intimate coverage of the Slade School Of Fine Art going into occupation and the student movement behind it. With Tom Clark, Sophie Lee, Mark MacGowan, Aaron Angell, Alex Springer, Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Rees. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.Soho Calls (5.15)The name “Soho” derives from an old English hunting call, an adaption of ‘Seeho’ which in old hunting lingo means ‘seen a hare’. In Soho calls, six female performers re-enact a hunt, communicating with their voices alone and the non-linguistic sounds of ancient hunting calls. A sound arrangement develops in the public space of Soho, specifically up and around Rupert St, which leads to Berwick street and market. The hunting calls are juxtaposed with the pre-existing urban sound environment and creating an alternative kind of hunting ritual.Laura is in the postgraduate media department at the Slade.Staff and students during the Slade Occupation perform a version of Slade’s 1973 festive hit, ‘Merry Xmas Everybody!’Click on the play button below to download the track:
Merry Xmas Everybody! (3:46)With the permission and encouragement of Noddy Holder and management.
The work is called Experiment for a Monument and is was made for FEM 10 festival in Girona, Spain, 2010.
All images by Gresol / Ana Rita Rodrigues.“I walk the length of the street folding sheets of A4 into paper aeroplanes. I hold them up to the sky, but instead of throwing them, let them fall to the pavement.”Duration: ten minutes.Holly graduated from the Slade MFA in 2010, Degree Show website.
For further information and work see http://www.hollyslingsby.com/Martin Luther King 28.08.1963 (Extract)Adolf Hitler 1934 (Extract)Hirohito (Emperor Showa) 15.08.1945 (Extract)Mahatma Gandhi 17.10.1931 (Extract)Diana Frances Spencer 09.08.1993Mixed Media / Sound Installation
2009Junko’s sigh

Bridge, String, Melon
watermelon, string, bridge, valleySite-specific installation: Watermelon suspended on a string from a road bridge near Rethymnon, Crete.
The traffic on the road over the bridge, and the wind blowing through the valley made the string vibrate and sing.This work was made whilst on the Slade Utopia Residency in Crete.
E75 road bridge and valley, Rethymnon, Crete, Greece, July 2009Melis graduated from the Slade MFA in 2009. Degree Show website.
For further information and work see http://www.melisvandenberg.com/.It Was Gravity Which Pulled Us Down – performance documentation from Holly Slingsby on Vimeo.‘It Was Gravity Which Pulled Us Down’ was a performance made especially for Christ Church Spitalfields in 2009. The work juxtaposes live and videoed action. The live performance consisted of gestures of lifting deflated balloons. This was contradicted by the videoed gesture seen with it, of dropping a handful of ash. The naively hopeful act of lifting the balloons – as if they might float again – is in direct disagreement with the melancholy release of the ash.Holly is a currently completing her MFA in Media, look out for her degree show this summer.The Voice and Nothing More, January 2009, was a week-long festival exploring the voice as both medium and subject matter in contemporary arts practices. Both established and emerging artists worked with leading vocal performers and composers in an exploration of the voice outside language.Invited performers included Mikhail Karikis, Lore Lixembourg and Juice, as well as a specially formed large-scale vocal ensemble.
Performers, working with the artists and resident composer Claudia Molitor created new score-objects that culminated in a series of new performances. Artists included Martin Creed, Cornelia Parker, Estelle Thompson and Bruce Mclean.Video: Kathryn Faulkner and Robin Sewell
Editing: Sam BelinfanteCurated by Sam Belinfante and Neil Luck.For more information, images and press please go to the Voice and Nothing More website.Cheek to CheekI had each of my six family members (and myself) sing Irving Berlin’s song “Cheek To Cheek,” from the 1935 film Top Hat. I recorded each of us separately singing the song to completion at our own paces.  Then I overlapped the seven tracks so that we are all singing it together, as a family unit, made up of individuals. It perfectly demonstrates the push and pull affect I am trying to create within my art, of the subjects being so happy together that they are in heavenly bliss, while at the same time there is something unbearably uncomfortable, out of sync, and wrong. The installation of this sound work exists within a domestic setting, and all of the tracks are played simultaneously out of one Gramophone horn.Allison graduated from the Slade MFA in 2009. Degree Show website.
For further information and work see allisonmaletz.com.The Slade School of Fine Art - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 231 - Copyright © 1996-2009 UCL1st Light Zagora from Joe Clark on Vimeo.Shot and edited in the desert town of Zagora, Morroco on a residency in the summer of 2008, this animation creates an oblique narrative using available light. Composed of a series of static shots; the edit traverses the town, revealing an uncanny and escalating rhythm which is apparently common to all the lights in the town. The soundtrack made up of a mix of field recordings and designed sounds shifts between foley and music, mirroring our shifting perception of the space: pulsing with an Otherness which fails to make itself known, in a work which is both formally playful and ambivalent about its message.In January 2008, to mark the 40th anniversary of John Cage’s seminal publication Notations (Something Else Press, 1968-9), Luck and Belinfante presented a range of investigations into what notation is – and could be. Notations 2008, at the Slade Research Centre, presented performances by leading contemporary musicians including Mikhail Karikis, Anton Lukoszevieze, Sankorfa and members of Apartment House. These performers worked in collaboration with visual artists to produce new graphic scores, sonic artworks and installations. Artists included Jayne Parker, Dryden Goodwin and Simon Morris.Video: Richard Bevan
Editing: Sam BelinfanteCurated by Sam Belinfante and Neil Luck[ Javascript required to view QuickTime movie, please turn it on and refresh this page ]Drip Piece
6-Channel Sound Installation
Dimensions VariableFirst shown at Slade Interim Show, Woburn Square, October 2007.Sam graduated from the Slade MA in 2008. Degree show website.
For more information on this and other works please see sambelinfante.com.Dirty ChairAn armchair is the base for this audio sculpture. The armchair is domestic, used, and out-dated. It looks as though it could be comfortable, but its worn and uncleanly appearance is not particularly inviting. Yet from within the chair a seductive voice asks to be sat on… literally calling in a soft whisper “Sit on me… sit on me…” repeatedly.  This sculpture is about constant need and lack of acknowledgment.”Allison graduated from the Slade MFA in 2009. Degree Show website.
For further information and work see allisonmaletz.com.[ Javascript required to view QuickTime movie, please turn it on and refresh this page ]This Space Drawing was completed in The Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square in 2007.Hua Kuan Sai completed his MFA at the Slade in 2007. Degree show website.E.M.E on Katie Paterson’s websiteE.M.E (Earth-Moon-Earth) is a form of radio transmission whereby messages are sent in Morse code from earth, reflected from the surface of the moon, and then received back on earth. The moon reflects only part of the information back – some is absorbed in its shadows, ‘lost’ in its craters.For this work, Beethoven’s Moonlight Sonata has been translated into Morse code and sent to the moon via E.M.E. Returning to earth ‘fragmented’ by the moon’s surface, it has been re-translated into a new score, the gaps and absences becoming intervals and rests. In the exhibition space the new ‘moon–altered’ score plays on a Disklavier grand piano.6th–13th June 2007, Slade School of Fine Art2 April – 1 June 2008, Modern Art Oxford, Encounters Katie PatersonFor more information on this and other words see Katie’s website.Vatnajokull (the sound of) on Katie’s websiteAn underwater microphone lead into Jökulsárlón lagoon – an outlet glacial lagoon of Vatnajökull, filled with icebergs – connected to an amplifier, and a mobile-phone, which created a live phone line to the glacier. The number +44(0)7757001122 could be called from any telephone in the world, the listener put through to Vatnajökull. A white neon sign of the phone number hung in the gallery space.6th–13th June 2007, Slade School of Fine Art2 April – 1 June 2008, Modern Art Oxford, Encounters Katie PatersonFor more information on this and other words see Katie’s website.[ Javascript required to view QuickTime movie, please turn it on and refresh this page ]Round
Four Independently looping DVDsFirst exhibited at Trace, Slade Research Centre, May 2007Sam graduated from the Slade MA in 2008. Degree show website.
For more information on this and other works please see sambelinfante.com.These are a series of videos documenting research by Chatzivasileiadi.
This body of work was completed between 2004 and 2006.Research Processes[ Javascript required to view QuickTime movie, please turn it on and refresh this page ]Interaction with Audience[ Javascript required to view QuickTime movie, please turn it on and refresh this page ]Chatzivasileiadi completed her MFA at the Slade in 2006. Degree show website.[ Javascript required to view QuickTime movie, please turn it on and refresh this page ]Nic Lyons graduated from Slade MFA in 2006. Degree show website.The Slade School of Fine Art - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 231 - Copyright © 1996-2009 UCL[ Javascript required to view QuickTime movie, please turn it on and refresh this page ]The Slade School of Fine Art - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 231 - Copyright © 1996-2009 UCLListen here to the ongoing series of radio programs made by The Slade Occupation for Resonance 104.4fm. The program is a platform for people’s audio artworks, music, current affairs features, talking, readings and other miscellaneous sounds, and represents a weekly aural glimpse into the inner workings of the school. The program is broadcast every Tuesday afternoon at 5.00pm and also streamed online. Listen live online at the Resonance 104.4fm website. Click on the play icons below for a download option.JuneSlade Transmissions 14/6/11
Claire and Tom set off to talk on the phone. Alan misses his  fishes. People are told to get out of Wimbledon. The show is then  massively hijacked by Tom’s trip to Croydon. Wind. Vibrant. Damp  Coconuts.–
Slade Transmissions 7/2/11This Tuesday at 5 o’clock is cheese o’clock: A cheesy study into cheesy music with Dante Rendle Traynor.
MaySlade Transmissions 31/5/11Vanessa Visual and Virginia Verbal take you on an ekphrastic tour of Charleston House in East Sussex where Vanessa and Clive Bell and Duncan Grant lived and worked.–
 Slade Transmissions 24/5/11In a follow-up to the 22nd of March program, Ellen Kim and Will Saunders discuss issues surrounding art school admissions policies, fees, and seminars.–Slade Transmissions 17/5/11What do you get when you mix Howlin’ Wolf, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor, Nick Hart, music, politics, Arthur Prior, Dantella, writing, Ambar Sethi, laughter, Will Saunders, and backwards? This.–Slade Transmissions 11/5/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar and special guest Mosie talk about love, music and everything in between.–Slade Transmissions 3/5/11Will Saunders and Dante Rendle Traynor discuss the practice of ‘gibberish’.
April Slade Transmissions 26/4/11Bill McCool presents tracks from his ‘Concentrated’ collection. Produced by Will Saunders–Slade Transmissions 19/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 2)
–Slade Transmissions 12/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 1)
–Slade Transmissions 5/4/11A bunged up Ian Chan breathes for half an hour.
March Slade Transmissions 29/3/11Lecture/performance given by artist Merlin Carpenter at The Slade, with ‘interventions’ by students at the school.–Slade Transmissions 22/3/11Short stories, skits, rants, laments and jingles. With coverage from the UCL occupation of the registry and the UCU strike. Written, read and produced by Nina Prader, Tom Rees, Ambar Sethi, Harriet Poznansky, Arthur Prior, Zou Zhoa, Michael Lewis and an anonymous caller.–Slade Transmissions 15/3/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar presents a program on love, life and everything in between and plays some of her favourite music.–Slade Transmissions 1/3/11Aaron Angell presents: ‘Unknown artists, unknown tracks’.
February Slade Transmissions 22/2/11Will Saunders reads his controversial ‘Thoughts on Art School’, followed by an absurdist Resonance FM studio improvisation by Slade students. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 15/2/11Special feature on the ‘Platform 1’ event held at The Bloomsbury Theatre on the 2nd/3rd of February. Featuring work by Ellen Kim, Tom Clark, Lily Hawkes, Sophie Rose Askwith, Tom Rees and Jennifer Martin, along with “technical commentary” featuring Eve, Steve and Andreas. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Clark.–Slade Transmissions 8/2/11Coverage of the ‘Arts Against Cuts’ British Museum teach in and work made by and given to Slade students. With Simon Werner, Gamaliel Rendle Traynor’s quartet, Claire Boyd, Dante Rendle Traynor, The Voolas, Tom Rees and The Golden Boys. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
JanuarySlade Transmissions 25/1/11Coverage of the continuing student demonstrations in the new year and work made by and given to Slade students. With ‘Ben’, Simon Werner, The Versatile Dreamers, eccentric performer Hugh Hughes, The Golden Boys, Laura Cooper, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor and Gamaliel Rendle Traynor. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
DecemberSlade Transmissions 15/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Coverage of the Slade occupation, the student demonstrations and work made by Slade staff and students inside the occupation. With Gary Woodley, Lauren Godfrey, Claire Boyd, RCA Students, Dante Rendle Traynor, Sharon Morris, Aaron Angell and Sophie Rose Askwith. Also featuring The Slade School re-performing Slade’s 1973 festive hit ‘Merry Xmas Everybody’. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 8/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Intimate coverage of the Slade School Of Fine Art going into occupation and the student movement behind it. With Tom Clark, Sophie Lee, Mark MacGowan, Aaron Angell, Alex Springer, Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Rees. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.How Much Did This Lot Cost (0:58)Not the point.Feeding Song of the Nude Bolognaise Preparation Ceremony (4:39)Rare field recording from Flat 5, 49 Gray’s Inn Road in Central London.Staff and students during the Slade Occupation perform a version of Slade’s 1973 festive hit, ‘Merry Xmas Everybody!’Click on the play button below to download the track:
Merry Xmas Everybody! (3:46)With the permission and encouragement of Noddy Holder and management.Success (0:52)Soundtrack from a virtual fight.Claire is in the undergraduate Media department at the Slade.Lost (1:47)This work was made while the artist was on exchange in Finland, lost in a forest and with no means of communication.Lauren is in the undergraduate Sculpture department at the Slade.Soundtrack for a small exhibitionThe artist describes several SF films from memory.For further information, see http://www.aaronangell.com/Track OneTrack TwoTrack ThreeTrack FourFour part ambient metal odyssey.Whistle Jam excerpt 1, ‘Oi G’ (0’40”)Whistle Jam excerpt 2, Choral Chanting (1’38”)Whistle Jam excerpt 3, ‘Audience participation’ (0’34”)Whistle Jam excerpt 4, ‘Look over the edge’ (2’15”)Whistle Jam excerpt 5, ‘Wayne joins in’ (2’16”)Whistle Jam excerpt 6, ‘Choral Chanting’ (4’27”)The work consisted of Dante and collaborator, Guthrie, positioned at the top and bottom of the stairwell at Woburn, each with an amplifier and microphone. The two artists attempted to have first a musical then simply a normal conversation across the space, the massive amount of reverb confounding any attempts of coherence!This piece was made as a performance/installation for The Voice and Nothing More, Slade Research Centre, January 2010.
Dante is currently studying Undergraduate Fine Art at the Slade, look out for more from him soon.Her Voice‘Her Voice’ is an aural response to the print entitled: Sheet of Nineteen Heads in Small Circles (c. 1530-40) and was inspired by Julia Kristeva’s writings on the semiotic and the female voice. The sound-piece is a vocal progression that starts with word and symbolic language, moves into non-verbal sounds and the semiotic, and finally culminates in song.While making this piece, I was concerned with the articulation of the female I-voice over the he/him of the male subject and the frustration at the constant return to the latter. Is the female ‘I’ only possible to formulate as the ‘I’ of difference, the ‘I’ of the other? I took refuge in song, but again encountered the problematic ambiguity of the singing voice: fetishised object for pleasure or the consuming self-enjoyment of feminine jouissance? Despite its theoretical struggles, I hope that ‘Her Voice’ retains an emotive impact and a refreshing intimacy.This piece was made through collaboration with UCL Art Collections.
Patricia is a final year undergraduate at the Slade, look out for her degree show in May 2010.The Slade School of Fine Art - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 231 - Copyright © 1996-2009 UCLListen here to the ongoing series of radio programs made by The Slade Occupation for Resonance 104.4fm. The program is a platform for people’s audio artworks, music, current affairs features, talking, readings and other miscellaneous sounds, and represents a weekly aural glimpse into the inner workings of the school. The program is broadcast every Tuesday afternoon at 5.00pm and also streamed online. Listen live online at the Resonance 104.4fm website. Click on the play icons below for a download option.JuneSlade Transmissions 14/6/11
Claire and Tom set off to talk on the phone. Alan misses his  fishes. People are told to get out of Wimbledon. The show is then  massively hijacked by Tom’s trip to Croydon. Wind. Vibrant. Damp  Coconuts.–
Slade Transmissions 7/2/11This Tuesday at 5 o’clock is cheese o’clock: A cheesy study into cheesy music with Dante Rendle Traynor.
MaySlade Transmissions 31/5/11Vanessa Visual and Virginia Verbal take you on an ekphrastic tour of Charleston House in East Sussex where Vanessa and Clive Bell and Duncan Grant lived and worked.–
 Slade Transmissions 24/5/11In a follow-up to the 22nd of March program, Ellen Kim and Will Saunders discuss issues surrounding art school admissions policies, fees, and seminars.–Slade Transmissions 17/5/11What do you get when you mix Howlin’ Wolf, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor, Nick Hart, music, politics, Arthur Prior, Dantella, writing, Ambar Sethi, laughter, Will Saunders, and backwards? This.–Slade Transmissions 11/5/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar and special guest Mosie talk about love, music and everything in between.–Slade Transmissions 3/5/11Will Saunders and Dante Rendle Traynor discuss the practice of ‘gibberish’.
April Slade Transmissions 26/4/11Bill McCool presents tracks from his ‘Concentrated’ collection. Produced by Will Saunders–Slade Transmissions 19/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 2)
–Slade Transmissions 12/4/11slade transmissions tom clark and claire boyd SPICY EYEBALLS dante  sudocrem elephants funny irony sincerity idiotic downright cheeky  jingle.. (Part 1)
–Slade Transmissions 5/4/11A bunged up Ian Chan breathes for half an hour.
March Slade Transmissions 29/3/11Lecture/performance given by artist Merlin Carpenter at The Slade, with ‘interventions’ by students at the school.–Slade Transmissions 22/3/11Short stories, skits, rants, laments and jingles. With coverage from the UCL occupation of the registry and the UCU strike. Written, read and produced by Nina Prader, Tom Rees, Ambar Sethi, Harriet Poznansky, Arthur Prior, Zou Zhoa, Michael Lewis and an anonymous caller.–Slade Transmissions 15/3/11Helen C Benigson Aka Princess Belsize Dollar presents a program on love, life and everything in between and plays some of her favourite music.–Slade Transmissions 1/3/11Aaron Angell presents: ‘Unknown artists, unknown tracks’.
February Slade Transmissions 22/2/11Will Saunders reads his controversial ‘Thoughts on Art School’, followed by an absurdist Resonance FM studio improvisation by Slade students. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 15/2/11Special feature on the ‘Platform 1’ event held at The Bloomsbury Theatre on the 2nd/3rd of February. Featuring work by Ellen Kim, Tom Clark, Lily Hawkes, Sophie Rose Askwith, Tom Rees and Jennifer Martin, along with “technical commentary” featuring Eve, Steve and Andreas. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Clark.–Slade Transmissions 8/2/11Coverage of the ‘Arts Against Cuts’ British Museum teach in and work made by and given to Slade students. With Simon Werner, Gamaliel Rendle Traynor’s quartet, Claire Boyd, Dante Rendle Traynor, The Voolas, Tom Rees and The Golden Boys. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
JanuarySlade Transmissions 25/1/11Coverage of the continuing student demonstrations in the new year and work made by and given to Slade students. With ‘Ben’, Simon Werner, The Versatile Dreamers, eccentric performer Hugh Hughes, The Golden Boys, Laura Cooper, Tom Rees, Dante Rendle Traynor and Gamaliel Rendle Traynor. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.
DecemberSlade Transmissions 15/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Coverage of the Slade occupation, the student demonstrations and work made by Slade staff and students inside the occupation. With Gary Woodley, Lauren Godfrey, Claire Boyd, RCA Students, Dante Rendle Traynor, Sharon Morris, Aaron Angell and Sophie Rose Askwith. Also featuring The Slade School re-performing Slade’s 1973 festive hit ‘Merry Xmas Everybody’. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.–Slade Transmissions 8/12/10Recorded and produced inside the Slade occupation.Intimate coverage of the Slade School Of Fine Art going into occupation and the student movement behind it. With Tom Clark, Sophie Lee, Mark MacGowan, Aaron Angell, Alex Springer, Dante Rendle Traynor and Tom Rees. Produced by Dante Rendle Traynor.How Much Did This Lot Cost (0:58)Not the point.Feeding Song of the Nude Bolognaise Preparation Ceremony (4:39)Rare field recording from Flat 5, 49 Gray’s Inn Road in Central London.Staff and students during the Slade Occupation perform a version of Slade’s 1973 festive hit, ‘Merry Xmas Everybody!’Click on the play button below to download the track:
Merry Xmas Everybody! (3:46)With the permission and encouragement of Noddy Holder and management.Success (0:52)Soundtrack from a virtual fight.Claire is in the undergraduate Media department at the Slade.Lost (1:47)This work was made while the artist was on exchange in Finland, lost in a forest and with no means of communication.Lauren is in the undergraduate Sculpture department at the Slade.Soundtrack for a small exhibitionThe artist describes several SF films from memory.For further information, see http://www.aaronangell.com/Track OneTrack TwoTrack ThreeTrack FourFour part ambient metal odyssey.Whistle Jam excerpt 1, ‘Oi G’ (0’40”)Whistle Jam excerpt 2, Choral Chanting (1’38”)Whistle Jam excerpt 3, ‘Audience participation’ (0’34”)Whistle Jam excerpt 4, ‘Look over the edge’ (2’15”)Whistle Jam excerpt 5, ‘Wayne joins in’ (2’16”)Whistle Jam excerpt 6, ‘Choral Chanting’ (4’27”)The work consisted of Dante and collaborator, Guthrie, positioned at the top and bottom of the stairwell at Woburn, each with an amplifier and microphone. The two artists attempted to have first a musical then simply a normal conversation across the space, the massive amount of reverb confounding any attempts of coherence!This piece was made as a performance/installation for The Voice and Nothing More, Slade Research Centre, January 2010.
Dante is currently studying Undergraduate Fine Art at the Slade, look out for more from him soon.Her Voice‘Her Voice’ is an aural response to the print entitled: Sheet of Nineteen Heads in Small Circles (c. 1530-40) and was inspired by Julia Kristeva’s writings on the semiotic and the female voice. The sound-piece is a vocal progression that starts with word and symbolic language, moves into non-verbal sounds and the semiotic, and finally culminates in song.While making this piece, I was concerned with the articulation of the female I-voice over the he/him of the male subject and the frustration at the constant return to the latter. Is the female ‘I’ only possible to formulate as the ‘I’ of difference, the ‘I’ of the other? I took refuge in song, but again encountered the problematic ambiguity of the singing voice: fetishised object for pleasure or the consuming self-enjoyment of feminine jouissance? Despite its theoretical struggles, I hope that ‘Her Voice’ retains an emotive impact and a refreshing intimacy.This piece was made through collaboration with UCL Art Collections.
Patricia is a final year undergraduate at the Slade, look out for her degree show in May 2010.The Slade School of Fine Art - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 231 - Copyright © 1996-2009 UCLSound installation consisting of muzak soundtrack from 1980s porn flick, ‘Magnificent Tits’ (groans removed) playing in the lift shaft of the Slade Research Center.Dante is in the undergraduate Media department at the Slade.The Voice and Nothing More, January 2009, was a week-long festival exploring the voice as both medium and subject matter in contemporary arts practices. Both established and emerging artists worked with leading vocal performers and composers in an exploration of the voice outside language.Invited performers included Mikhail Karikis, Lore Lixembourg and Juice, as well as a specially formed large-scale vocal ensemble.
Performers, working with the artists and resident composer Claudia Molitor created new score-objects that culminated in a series of new performances. Artists included Martin Creed, Cornelia Parker, Estelle Thompson and Bruce Mclean.Video: Kathryn Faulkner and Robin Sewell
Editing: Sam BelinfanteCurated by Sam Belinfante and Neil Luck.For more information, images and press please go to the Voice and Nothing More website.In January 2008, to mark the 40th anniversary of John Cage’s seminal publication Notations (Something Else Press, 1968-9), Luck and Belinfante presented a range of investigations into what notation is – and could be. Notations 2008, at the Slade Research Centre, presented performances by leading contemporary musicians including Mikhail Karikis, Anton Lukoszevieze, Sankorfa and members of Apartment House. These performers worked in collaboration with visual artists to produce new graphic scores, sonic artworks and installations. Artists included Jayne Parker, Dryden Goodwin and Simon Morris.Video: Richard Bevan
Editing: Sam BelinfanteCurated by Sam Belinfante and Neil LuckThe Age of Reason
This is a recording of White reading Sartre’s The Age of Reason with all the words edited out leaving only the breath, glottal and associated sounds remaining.


Patrick White finished his BA at the Slade in 2006. Degree show website.The Slade School of Fine Art - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT -  +44 (0)20 7679 231 - Copyright © 1996-2009 UCLAt the Slade School of Fine Art we approach the practice of contemporary
art and the history and theories that inform it in an experimental, research-oriented
and imaginative way. An art school with a world leading reputation, the
Slade makes a significant contribution to the field of contemporary art both nationally
and internationally.The Slade has a lively and dynamic studio-led research culture. All studio staff are practising artists with significant exhibition profiles, actively involved in research as well as teaching. >>> For undergraduates we offer a three-year BFA and four-year BA. At graduate level we have an MA and MFA, as well as MPhil/PhD. We welcome international students and also offer our undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad.  
We are a world leading university department for research in Fine Art. All studio staff are practising artists and actively involved in research as well as teaching.Our staff and students are lively and engaged with a wide range of initiatives nationally and internationally, and you may have heard of a number of our alumni.Follow us on Twitter.Slade students and staff initiate and engage in a wide range of events.Booking is now open for our Summer School and unique Summer Foundation. Our Short Courses run from October to Easter and the new programme will be available in August. The Slade's foundation in 1871 was the result of a bequest from Felix Slade who envisaged a school where fine art would be studied within a liberal arts university.   Alvaro Barrington has a solo show at MOMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, NY 11101, from 22 October - 31 December 2017. See www.moma.org. An article by ...more            Booking is now open for our Spring/Easter 2018 Short Course Programmes. Evening and Saturday courses in drawing and painting will begin in January and Easter courses run between 9-13 ...more         Rachel Whiteread has a solo show at Tate Britain, Millbank, London SW1P 4RG, from 12 September 2017 – 21 January 2018. See www.tate.org.uk.
more        PhD online application is now open for September 2018. For further information about our PhD Research, see www.ucl.ac.uk/slade/degrees/mphil-phd; to apply see www.ucl.ac ...more            Slade MA/MFA Fine Art applications for September 2018 now open. Apply here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/apply. more At the Slade School of Fine Art we approach the practice of contemporary
art and the history and theories that inform it in an experimental, research-oriented
and imaginative way. An art school with a world leading reputation, the
Slade makes a significant contribution to the field of contemporary art both nationally
and internationally.The Slade has a lively and dynamic studio-led research culture. All studio staff are practising artists with significant exhibition profiles, actively involved in research as well as teaching. >>> For undergraduates we offer a three-year BFA and four-year BA. At graduate level we have an MA and MFA, as well as MPhil/PhD. We welcome international students and also offer our undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad.  
We are a world leading university department for research in Fine Art. All studio staff are practising artists and actively involved in research as well as teaching.Our staff and students are lively and engaged with a wide range of initiatives nationally and internationally, and you may have heard of a number of our alumni.Follow us on Twitter.Slade students and staff initiate and engage in a wide range of events.Booking is now open for our Summer School and unique Summer Foundation. Our Short Courses run from October to Easter and the new programme will be available in August. The Slade's foundation in 1871 was the result of a bequest from Felix Slade who envisaged a school where fine art would be studied within a liberal arts university.   Alvaro Barrington has a solo show at MOMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, NY 11101, from 22 October - 31 December 2017. See www.moma.org. An article by ...more            Booking is now open for our Spring/Easter 2018 Short Course Programmes. Evening and Saturday courses in drawing and painting will begin in January and Easter courses run between 9-13 ...more         Rachel Whiteread has a solo show at Tate Britain, Millbank, London SW1P 4RG, from 12 September 2017 – 21 January 2018. See www.tate.org.uk.
more        PhD online application is now open for September 2018. For further information about our PhD Research, see www.ucl.ac.uk/slade/degrees/mphil-phd; to apply see www.ucl.ac ...more            Slade MA/MFA Fine Art applications for September 2018 now open. Apply here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/apply. more At the Slade School of Fine Art we approach the practice of contemporary
art and the history and theories that inform it in an experimental, research-oriented
and imaginative way. An art school with a world leading reputation, the
Slade makes a significant contribution to the field of contemporary art both nationally
and internationally.The Slade has a lively and dynamic studio-led research culture. All studio staff are practising artists with significant exhibition profiles, actively involved in research as well as teaching. >>> For undergraduates we offer a three-year BFA and four-year BA. At graduate level we have an MA and MFA, as well as MPhil/PhD. We welcome international students and also offer our undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad.  
We are a world leading university department for research in Fine Art. All studio staff are practising artists and actively involved in research as well as teaching.Our staff and students are lively and engaged with a wide range of initiatives nationally and internationally, and you may have heard of a number of our alumni.Follow us on Twitter.Slade students and staff initiate and engage in a wide range of events.Booking is now open for our Summer School and unique Summer Foundation. Our Short Courses run from October to Easter and the new programme will be available in August. The Slade's foundation in 1871 was the result of a bequest from Felix Slade who envisaged a school where fine art would be studied within a liberal arts university.   Alvaro Barrington has a solo show at MOMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, NY 11101, from 22 October - 31 December 2017. See www.moma.org. An article by ...more            Booking is now open for our Spring/Easter 2018 Short Course Programmes. Evening and Saturday courses in drawing and painting will begin in January and Easter courses run between 9-13 ...more         Rachel Whiteread has a solo show at Tate Britain, Millbank, London SW1P 4RG, from 12 September 2017 – 21 January 2018. See www.tate.org.uk.
more        PhD online application is now open for September 2018. For further information about our PhD Research, see www.ucl.ac.uk/slade/degrees/mphil-phd; to apply see www.ucl.ac ...more            Slade MA/MFA Fine Art applications for September 2018 now open. Apply here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/apply. more At the Slade School of Fine Art we approach the practice of contemporary
art and the history and theories that inform it in an experimental, research-oriented
and imaginative way. An art school with a world leading reputation, the
Slade makes a significant contribution to the field of contemporary art both nationally
and internationally.The Slade has a lively and dynamic studio-led research culture. All studio staff are practising artists with significant exhibition profiles, actively involved in research as well as teaching. >>> For undergraduates we offer a three-year BFA and four-year BA. At graduate level we have an MA and MFA, as well as MPhil/PhD. We welcome international students and also offer our undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad.  
We are a world leading university department for research in Fine Art. All studio staff are practising artists and actively involved in research as well as teaching.Our staff and students are lively and engaged with a wide range of initiatives nationally and internationally, and you may have heard of a number of our alumni.Follow us on Twitter.Slade students and staff initiate and engage in a wide range of events.Booking is now open for our Summer School and unique Summer Foundation. Our Short Courses run from October to Easter and the new programme will be available in August. The Slade's foundation in 1871 was the result of a bequest from Felix Slade who envisaged a school where fine art would be studied within a liberal arts university.   Alvaro Barrington has a solo show at MOMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, NY 11101, from 22 October - 31 December 2017. See www.moma.org. An article by ...more            Booking is now open for our Spring/Easter 2018 Short Course Programmes. Evening and Saturday courses in drawing and painting will begin in January and Easter courses run between 9-13 ...more         Rachel Whiteread has a solo show at Tate Britain, Millbank, London SW1P 4RG, from 12 September 2017 – 21 January 2018. See www.tate.org.uk.
more        PhD online application is now open for September 2018. For further information about our PhD Research, see www.ucl.ac.uk/slade/degrees/mphil-phd; to apply see www.ucl.ac ...more            Slade MA/MFA Fine Art applications for September 2018 now open. Apply here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/apply. more At the Slade School of Fine Art we approach the practice of contemporary
art and the history and theories that inform it in an experimental, research-oriented
and imaginative way. An art school with a world leading reputation, the
Slade makes a significant contribution to the field of contemporary art both nationally
and internationally.The Slade has a lively and dynamic studio-led research culture. All studio staff are practising artists with significant exhibition profiles, actively involved in research as well as teaching. >>> For undergraduates we offer a three-year BFA and four-year BA. At graduate level we have an MA and MFA, as well as MPhil/PhD. We welcome international students and also offer our undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad.  
We are a world leading university department for research in Fine Art. All studio staff are practising artists and actively involved in research as well as teaching.Our staff and students are lively and engaged with a wide range of initiatives nationally and internationally, and you may have heard of a number of our alumni.Follow us on Twitter.Slade students and staff initiate and engage in a wide range of events.Booking is now open for our Summer School and unique Summer Foundation. Our Short Courses run from October to Easter and the new programme will be available in August. The Slade's foundation in 1871 was the result of a bequest from Felix Slade who envisaged a school where fine art would be studied within a liberal arts university.   Alvaro Barrington has a solo show at MOMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, NY 11101, from 22 October - 31 December 2017. See www.moma.org. An article by ...more            Booking is now open for our Spring/Easter 2018 Short Course Programmes. Evening and Saturday courses in drawing and painting will begin in January and Easter courses run between 9-13 ...more         Rachel Whiteread has a solo show at Tate Britain, Millbank, London SW1P 4RG, from 12 September 2017 – 21 January 2018. See www.tate.org.uk.
more        PhD online application is now open for September 2018. For further information about our PhD Research, see www.ucl.ac.uk/slade/degrees/mphil-phd; to apply see www.ucl.ac ...more            Slade MA/MFA Fine Art applications for September 2018 now open. Apply here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/apply. more At the Slade School of Fine Art we approach the practice of contemporary
art and the history and theories that inform it in an experimental, research-oriented
and imaginative way. An art school with a world leading reputation, the
Slade makes a significant contribution to the field of contemporary art both nationally
and internationally.The Slade has a lively and dynamic studio-led research culture. All studio staff are practising artists with significant exhibition profiles, actively involved in research as well as teaching. >>> For undergraduates we offer a three-year BFA and four-year BA. At graduate level we have an MA and MFA, as well as MPhil/PhD. We welcome international students and also offer our undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad.  
We are a world leading university department for research in Fine Art. All studio staff are practising artists and actively involved in research as well as teaching.Our staff and students are lively and engaged with a wide range of initiatives nationally and internationally, and you may have heard of a number of our alumni.Follow us on Twitter.Slade students and staff initiate and engage in a wide range of events.Booking is now open for our Summer School and unique Summer Foundation. Our Short Courses run from October to Easter and the new programme will be available in August. The Slade's foundation in 1871 was the result of a bequest from Felix Slade who envisaged a school where fine art would be studied within a liberal arts university.   Alvaro Barrington has a solo show at MOMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, NY 11101, from 22 October - 31 December 2017. See www.moma.org. An article by ...more            Booking is now open for our Spring/Easter 2018 Short Course Programmes. Evening and Saturday courses in drawing and painting will begin in January and Easter courses run between 9-13 ...more         Rachel Whiteread has a solo show at Tate Britain, Millbank, London SW1P 4RG, from 12 September 2017 – 21 January 2018. See www.tate.org.uk.
more        PhD online application is now open for September 2018. For further information about our PhD Research, see www.ucl.ac.uk/slade/degrees/mphil-phd; to apply see www.ucl.ac ...more            Slade MA/MFA Fine Art applications for September 2018 now open. Apply here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/apply. more At the Slade School of Fine Art we approach the practice of contemporary
art and the history and theories that inform it in an experimental, research-oriented
and imaginative way. An art school with a world leading reputation, the
Slade makes a significant contribution to the field of contemporary art both nationally
and internationally.The Slade has a lively and dynamic studio-led research culture. All studio staff are practising artists with significant exhibition profiles, actively involved in research as well as teaching. >>> For undergraduates we offer a three-year BFA and four-year BA. At graduate level we have an MA and MFA, as well as MPhil/PhD. We welcome international students and also offer our undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad.  
We are a world leading university department for research in Fine Art. All studio staff are practising artists and actively involved in research as well as teaching.Our staff and students are lively and engaged with a wide range of initiatives nationally and internationally, and you may have heard of a number of our alumni.Follow us on Twitter.Slade students and staff initiate and engage in a wide range of events.Booking is now open for our Summer School and unique Summer Foundation. Our Short Courses run from October to Easter and the new programme will be available in August. The Slade's foundation in 1871 was the result of a bequest from Felix Slade who envisaged a school where fine art would be studied within a liberal arts university.   Alvaro Barrington has a solo show at MOMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, NY 11101, from 22 October - 31 December 2017. See www.moma.org. An article by ...more            Booking is now open for our Spring/Easter 2018 Short Course Programmes. Evening and Saturday courses in drawing and painting will begin in January and Easter courses run between 9-13 ...more         Rachel Whiteread has a solo show at Tate Britain, Millbank, London SW1P 4RG, from 12 September 2017 – 21 January 2018. See www.tate.org.uk.
more        PhD online application is now open for September 2018. For further information about our PhD Research, see www.ucl.ac.uk/slade/degrees/mphil-phd; to apply see www.ucl.ac ...more            Slade MA/MFA Fine Art applications for September 2018 now open. Apply here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/prospective-students/graduate/apply. more There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions.The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.ukThe Slade offers two undergraduate programmes, the BA and the BFA in Fine Art; two Masters programmes, the MA and MFA in Fine Art; the MPhil/PhD in Fine Art, plus affiliate student programmes at all levels. An experimental research-oriented approach is at the heart of a studio-centred teaching environment, with each student - from BA/BFA through to PhD - expected to conduct individual and original research from day one.We
provide studio-centred teaching on our three year  BFA and four year BA.  At Graduate level we offer two
studio-based, research-centred programmes in Fine Art. A two calendar-year MA and a two academic-year MFA.The Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in
which to develop your doctoral research. We
have undergraduate exchange agreements with schools in the United States,
Europe, Israel and China and provide opportunities to international students at all levels for affiliate study.There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions. This information should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Slade Scholarships are awarded by nomination.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Grocers' Company Queen's Golden Jubilee Scholarship is open to UK nationals entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School in alternate years. The value of the scholarship is around £2,000 per year, for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory academic progress. Awards are made every four years, beginning in 2018.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The James Lewis Foundation Scholarship is an entrance scholarship in memory of James Lewis, for a UK national entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School. The value of the scholarship is £4,500 per year for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress.The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Painters’ Company Scholarship is open to undergraduate students, normally UK nationals, specialising in painting or drawing entering the second year of their programme. The value of the scholarship is £5,000 per year for the remaining years of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress. The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.BursariesEach year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000. The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in their final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.  The Clare Winsten Memorial Award is for a Slade graduate or graduating female UK student to enable them to develop their creative talents. One or two awards of £10,000 are available each year.The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Michael Farrell Memorial Prize is awarded in memory of Mick Farrell, a photography technician at the Slade (2003-2015). His artistic practice negotiated the relationship between photography and sculpture, and developed an experimental approach to process and object. His explorations led him to developing pin hole camera techniques where he eventually worked closely with colleague Cliff Haines to construct the Straw Camera which gives a unique physical presence to the photograph. £600 is awarded annually to a final year undergraduate student in Fine Art for excellence and innovation in photography and its relationship with form, image and process.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement.A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The following Scholarships are awarded by the Slade on the basis of merit and nomination by the entrance examiners following the entrance interviews.  Please note that all eligible applicants will be considered for all of these scholarships – no further application is required unless you are contacted by the Slade and specifically asked to do so.Graduate Taught entrants: Each year, we are delighted to be able to offer a number of generous MA/MFA studentships for UK/EU students as well as a selection of awards for International (non-EU) students.The Sarabande Foundation Scholarship award offers one fully funded MA/MFA studentship for a UK/EU student and will be bestowed on the basis of artistic merit, combined with demonstrated financial need.  Nominated candidates will be invited to apply specifically for this scholarship after the Entrance Examinations with successful applicants invited to a Sarabande Scholarship interview.The Artists Collecting Society prize is awarded on merit to an MA or MFA student entering the second year of study. The award is worth £3000.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Felix Slade Scholarships are entrance scholarships open to graduate Home and EU students. There are six awards available. The scholarship will cover £5000.00 towards the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA programme.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The Irving Wernick Scholarship is offered to an incoming Graduate 
student working primarily in portraiture or figuratively on entry to the
 School.  The award is worth £7000.00 in each year of the programme. The gift is in memory of a Slade alumnus, Irving Wernick. The Leonora Carrington Scholarship; the Eileen Gray Scholarship; the Yitzhak Danziger Scholarship. These awards are entrance scholarships open to Overseas students. Each award provides £5,000.00 towards the Overseas fees in each year of study of the MA or MFA programme. One award is available in each area (Fine Art Media, Painting and Sculpture).The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Siva-Finestone Scholarship is open to Home and EU students. The award is a partial fee award for the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA Fine Art programme. One award is available every two years, being awarded in odd-numbered years.The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000.The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in his or her final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award provides a free ACME studio for one year plus a bursary of up to £7,000 to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Barto Dos Santos Memorial Award of £5,000 is for outstanding achievement by a final year graduate student.The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.The Chadwell Award - graduating postgraduate students are to be offered the opportunity this year to apply to the Chadwell Award.  This annual competition for final year Fine Art postgraduates aims to provide a bridge between art school and professional practice by giving a recent graduate a free studio in Bow, East London for one year together with a bursary of £5000.  Different institutions are targeted each year and Slade students will benefit from the opportunity to be considered in 2015.The Chelsea Arts Club Special Projects Award of £2,000 is made annually to a continuing MA or MFA student to help them with the cost of their studies and materials in their final year. The Award also includes one year's membership of the Chelsea Arts Club. The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Land Securities Award provides a free studio space for one year and an exhibition to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Max Werner Drawing Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually to a final year graduate student who has demonstrated excellence in drawing.The Peter and Betty McLean Prize of £1,000 is awarded anually to a final year graduate student.The Slade is invited to nominate candidates for the annual Red Mansion Art Prize. The prize is a residency in China for a continuing graduate student.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement. A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Slade graduate students are invited to compete for one of six artist residencies in Hong Kong at the Academy of Visual Arts, Hong Kong Baptist University, China.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the Fees and Funding section above.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the section above. UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration,
 tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic 
year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual 
increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. 
Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and 
living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership which brings together three leading UK research organisations: University College London (UCL), King’s College, London (KCL) and the School of Advanced Study (SAS). The LAHP will be awarding up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study or University College London in 2017-18. These studentships, which normally cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU students. As well as funding for studentships and shared doctoral training, this will open up additional opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision for Slade students across these three leading research institutions. For further information, please see www.lahp.ac.uk.If you wish to be considered for a LAHP Studentship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities please see the following links:UCL Scholarships and FundingUCL Doctoral SchoolJoint Faculty Institute of Graduate StudiesApplicants must indicate on their UCL application form that they wish to apply for a UCL Scholarship. If you wish to be considered for a UCL Research Scholarship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding application. Many deadlines for scholarships fall early in the spring and you may need to apply for the October deadline.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.Jean Spencer and Malcolm Hughes Bursaries are available each year for MPhil/PhD students to enable them to further their research through projects, conferences, travel, or other research activities. The maximum size of any bursary is £500 and applications for smaller awards are encouraged. There are two deadlines per academic year and applications are considered at the Slade Doctoral Board.Other sources of funding for research including conference, travel and project funds can be found on the UCL Doctoral School web pages.UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Slade Scholarships are awarded by nomination.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Grocers' Company Queen's Golden Jubilee Scholarship is open to UK nationals entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School in alternate years. The value of the scholarship is around £2,000 per year, for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory academic progress. Awards are made every four years, beginning in 2018.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The James Lewis Foundation Scholarship is an entrance scholarship in memory of James Lewis, for a UK national entering the undergraduate degree programme at the Slade School. The value of the scholarship is £4,500 per year for the duration of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress.The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Painters’ Company Scholarship is open to undergraduate students, normally UK nationals, specialising in painting or drawing entering the second year of their programme. The value of the scholarship is £5,000 per year for the remaining years of the programme, subject to satisfactory progress. The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.BursariesEach year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000. The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in their final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.  The Clare Winsten Memorial Award is for a Slade graduate or graduating female UK student to enable them to develop their creative talents. One or two awards of £10,000 are available each year.The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Michael Farrell Memorial Prize is awarded in memory of Mick Farrell, a photography technician at the Slade (2003-2015). His artistic practice negotiated the relationship between photography and sculpture, and developed an experimental approach to process and object. His explorations led him to developing pin hole camera techniques where he eventually worked closely with colleague Cliff Haines to construct the Straw Camera which gives a unique physical presence to the photograph. £600 is awarded annually to a final year undergraduate student in Fine Art for excellence and innovation in photography and its relationship with form, image and process.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement.A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The following Scholarships are awarded by the Slade on the basis of merit and nomination by the entrance examiners following the entrance interviews.  Please note that all eligible applicants will be considered for all of these scholarships – no further application is required unless you are contacted by the Slade and specifically asked to do so.Graduate Taught entrants: Each year, we are delighted to be able to offer a number of generous MA/MFA studentships for UK/EU students as well as a selection of awards for International (non-EU) students.The Sarabande Foundation Scholarship award offers one fully funded MA/MFA studentship for a UK/EU student and will be bestowed on the basis of artistic merit, combined with demonstrated financial need.  Nominated candidates will be invited to apply specifically for this scholarship after the Entrance Examinations with successful applicants invited to a Sarabande Scholarship interview.The Artists Collecting Society prize is awarded on merit to an MA or MFA student entering the second year of study. The award is worth £3000.The Euan Uglow Memorial Scholarship is an entrance scholarship, open to any degree student. The value of the award is £2,000 and is payable in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Felix Slade Scholarships are entrance scholarships open to graduate Home and EU students. There are six awards available. The scholarship will cover £5000.00 towards the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA programme.The Herbert Seaborn Memorial Scholarship of £1,000 is awarded annually for achievement to an undergraduate or graduate student entering their final year of study.The Irving Wernick Scholarship is offered to an incoming Graduate 
student working primarily in portraiture or figuratively on entry to the
 School.  The award is worth £7000.00 in each year of the programme. The gift is in memory of a Slade alumnus, Irving Wernick. The Leonora Carrington Scholarship; the Eileen Gray Scholarship; the Yitzhak Danziger Scholarship. These awards are entrance scholarships open to Overseas students. Each award provides £5,000.00 towards the Overseas fees in each year of study of the MA or MFA programme. One award is available in each area (Fine Art Media, Painting and Sculpture).The Nancy Balfour Trust Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £2,500 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.The Siva-Finestone Scholarship is open to Home and EU students. The award is a partial fee award for the Home/EU tuition fee in each year of the MA or MFA Fine Art programme. One award is available every two years, being awarded in odd-numbered years.The Thomas Scholarship is open to any undergraduate or graduate student. The value of the award is £5,000 paid in equal instalments at the beginning of each year of the programme.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.The Boise Travel Scholarship is open to students who have completed their studies and are normally resident in the UK. The scholarship is usually worth between £4,000 and £9,000.The Dolbey Travel Scholarship for £3,000 is awarded annually to a Slade student in his or her final year.The Duveen Travel Scholarship is open to Slade students normally resident in the UK. The scholarship, for travel and research during the summer vacation, is for approximately £3,000.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award provides a free ACME studio for one year plus a bursary of up to £7,000 to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Anthony Dawson Prize and Award will be gifted annually for the next five years in memoriam of Mr Anthony Dawson.  The two prizes will be awarded to students who exhibit excellence in printmaking as follows: The Barto Dos Santos Memorial Award of £5,000 is for outstanding achievement by a final year graduate student.The Berenice Goodwin Prize of £500 is awarded annually to a graduating student for achievement in performance.The Chadwell Award - graduating postgraduate students are to be offered the opportunity this year to apply to the Chadwell Award.  This annual competition for final year Fine Art postgraduates aims to provide a bridge between art school and professional practice by giving a recent graduate a free studio in Bow, East London for one year together with a bursary of £5000.  Different institutions are targeted each year and Slade students will benefit from the opportunity to be considered in 2015.The Chelsea Arts Club Special Projects Award of £2,000 is made annually to a continuing MA or MFA student to help them with the cost of their studies and materials in their final year. The Award also includes one year's membership of the Chelsea Arts Club. The Jeremy Cubitt Prize of £500 is an annual award for excellence in painting, for a student preferably from the east end of London.The Julia Wood Prize for Excellent Use of Space of £100 is awarded in recognition of excellence in articulating spatial constructs.The Julian Sullivan Award of £500 is awarded annually in June for achievement in fine art media.The Kenneth Armitage Sculpture Prize of £1,000 is awarded to a Slade student periodically by the Kenneth Armitage Foundation for achievement in sculpture. It is for a graduating sculpture student or a continuing graduate sculpture student.The Land Securities Award provides a free studio space for one year and an exhibition to an outstanding completing graduate student, to be taken up in his/her first year after graduation.The Max Werner Drawing Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually to a final year graduate student who has demonstrated excellence in drawing.The Peter and Betty McLean Prize of £1,000 is awarded anually to a final year graduate student.The Slade is invited to nominate candidates for the annual Red Mansion Art Prize. The prize is a residency in China for a continuing graduate student.The William Coldstream Prize of £1,000 is awarded annually in June as a purchase prize for outstanding achievement. A number of small Sessional Prizes are awarded annually, on the recommendation of the Slade Professor. They include the Alfred W Rich Scholarship; the Henry Tonks Prize, the Prankerd-Jones Memorial Prize; the Slade Prize and the Steer Medal and Prize.Slade graduate students are invited to compete for one of six artist residencies in Hong Kong at the Academy of Visual Arts, Hong Kong Baptist University, China.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the Fees and Funding section above.The Adrian Carruthers Memorial Award, Land Securities Award and Red Mansion Prize also offer residencies, please see the section above. UCL’s tuition fees are set annually and cover registration,
 tuition and supervision for each academic year, or part of an academic 
year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are subject to an annual 
increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic materials. 
Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and 
living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.The Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership which brings together three leading UK research organisations: University College London (UCL), King’s College, London (KCL) and the School of Advanced Study (SAS). The LAHP will be awarding up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study or University College London in 2017-18. These studentships, which normally cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU students. As well as funding for studentships and shared doctoral training, this will open up additional opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision for Slade students across these three leading research institutions. For further information, please see www.lahp.ac.uk.If you wish to be considered for a LAHP Studentship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities please see the following links:UCL Scholarships and FundingUCL Doctoral SchoolJoint Faculty Institute of Graduate StudiesApplicants must indicate on their UCL application form that they wish to apply for a UCL Scholarship. If you wish to be considered for a UCL Research Scholarship you must apply by the first deadline of 31 October 2016 for entrance into the programme the following September 2017.Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding application. Many deadlines for scholarships fall early in the spring and you may need to apply for the October deadline.Each year the Slade Bursary Committee awards a large number of £500 Bursaries, funded by donations from the Friends of the Slade and other benefactors to students with particularly difficult financial circumstances. All students are eligible to apply.Jean Spencer and Malcolm Hughes Bursaries are available each year for MPhil/PhD students to enable them to further their research through projects, conferences, travel, or other research activities. The maximum size of any bursary is £500 and applications for smaller awards are encouraged. There are two deadlines per academic year and applications are considered at the Slade Doctoral Board.Other sources of funding for research including conference, travel and project funds can be found on the UCL Doctoral School web pages. Born in 1923 in Brooklyn, New York U.S.A., Irving was spotted drawing portraits in Washington Square and won a scholarship to the Brooklyn High School of Music and Art, from which he gained a university entrance diploma. From 1941 to 1943 he studied at the Art School of the National Academy of Design in Brooklyn before joining the U.S. Navy in which he served from 1943-46.  Following the war, he went on to Cornell University where he studied History of Greek, Roman and Renaissance Art. Travel to Florence to study at the Academy of Fine Arts followed and it was here that he met his wife, Doreen who was working there as a governess, hav­ing completed her own university education at Kings College London. They re­turned to London together to get married and Irving then studied at the Slade School of Fine Art from 1952-55 under Professor William Coldstream and John Aldridge A.R.A. FINA6606 Methodologies of Drawing is a module taught by the Slade which is available to students from other departments in UCL. Priority on the module is given to students taking the BASc Arts and Sciences degree and the BSc Architectural and Interdisciplinary Studies. Application to the module is by Portfolio Inspection. Students from other departments, and intercollegiate students may apply to take the module, but we cannot guarantee places on the module until after the Portfolio Inspections have taken place. All students are required to submit a portfolio of work at the start of the Autumn Term. Portfolios will be reviewed and places allocated following the portfolio inspection. All students wishing to take FINA6606 must submit a portfolio of work to the Slade Office by the deadline.Any students who enter FINA6606 on Portico and who do not submit a portfolio of work for inspection will be rejected from the module. We are not able to give feedback on individual portfolios. Portfolios may be delivered to the Slade Office from 18th September 2017 and must be delivered by 10am on 27th September 2017. Portfolios should be clearly labelled with your name; loose work should be individually named.Teaching will take place on Mondays at the Slade Research Centre on Woburn Square. Classes take place between 6.00pm and 8.30pm in Term 1. In Term 2, students work independently, developing their individual approaches to drawing. Students will receive two 30 minute one-to-one tutorials ahead of their submission of the final portfolio of work.The final assessed portfolio of work is due to be handed in at the Slade Office by 4.00pm on Friday, 27th April 2018.FINA6606 students do not have access to the Slade Workshops. A materials fee of £75 is payable by the student or the student’s home department.Students are expected to attend all of the classes.  Methodologies of Drawing examines a series of practises of drawing in Fine Art, emphasising the development of concepts of drawing. The intention is that students learn through practice and treat drawing as a mode of thinking, feeling and enquiry.The syllabus is divided into five sections, each taught over two sessions:The books below are recommendations, although they are not required reading for the course. Students are encouraged to visit museums and galleries where drawings are regularly shown. For further information, please contact slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk, with FINA6606 in the title of your e-mail.There are around 140 full-time undergraduate students at the Slade studying on either the four-year BA or the three-year BFA studio based programmes in Fine Art. The BA and BFA are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements. The BA includes a history and theory of art component and an additional course chosen from another UCL department. The BFA includes a studio-based critical studies component.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.The studio programme for the BA and BFA is structured around three studio subject areas: painting, sculpture and fine art media. After an initial period of orientation as a first-year group, students choose to be based in one of the areas. Students are expected to initiate and develop their own 
programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support. Each 
subject area has a specialist team of academic staff supported by 
technical facilities and expertise and provides a focused environment in
 which students can address the practice and theory of the subject. 
Workshops enable students to develop their skills and technical 
abilities and each area runs a programme of seminars, visiting artists, 
gallery visits and other events pertinent to students' interests and the
 development of exciting and challenging debate.During
 the first two years BA students attend courses in the history and 
theory of art and produce written assignments, culminating in an 
Independent Study in year three. They also take an additional course in 
another department of UCL. BFA students complete a studio-based critical
 studies component. All undergraduate students can apply for a period of
 study abroad on the exchange programme.Each
 student is assigned to a tutor group comprised of students from all 
three areas, which meets twice a term. One-to-one tutorials can be 
arranged with the tutor, as well as with other academic staff, through a
 system of sign-up sheets and appointments.Each
 area organises regular seminars where students present their work for 
discussion. The aim is to relate the work to debates specific to the 
subject area and develop critical awareness.The
 cross-area seminars provide a forum for students to present their work 
to students and tutors across the subject areas. The aim is to relate 
the work to a broader context beyond the subject area in which it is 
produced. Cross-area seminars also aim to develop students' 
understanding of how to locate, place and present their work for 
exhibition. History and theory of art staff regularly participate in 
both series of seminars.Students
 work as a group across the subject areas in a number of different ways,
 including an introductory course to the contexts and histories of art 
practice in the autumn term of the first year.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Jonathan AllenStefania Batoeva, Bonnie Camplin, Than Hussein Clark, Enrico David, Kaye Donachie, Jana Euler, Lothar Goetz, Mark Harris, Andy Holden, Samson Kambula, Mikhail Karikis, Johnathan Meese, Rosalind Nashashibi, Harold Offeh, Rachel Reupke, Maggie Roberts/Orphan Drift, Imran Pretti, Larissa Sansour, Hannah Sawtell The undergraduate painting course aims to enable each student to pursue their ideas in and around painting in all its forms in the most committed, imaginative and experimental way. Work may manifest itself in a wide variety of different mediums and materials. Studio interaction is an essential aspect of the painting course. Each painting student is given studio space and the years are mixed together to provide a lively cross-fertilisation of ideas and practice. One-to-one tutorials are a crucial part of the course and regular seminars and crits take place where students are encouraged to discuss and present their work to fellow students and staff. Workshop programmes to introduce painters to stretcher-making and some materials of painting are available to students. An integral part of the course is the extensive programme of visiting artists and critics, who give tutorials and lectures and participate in seminars. The undergraduate sculpture area embraces an expansive idea of sculpture towards the expression and exploration of ideas in space, using material or dematerialised processes. We encourage experimentation, invention and intervention which may incorporate object making, installation, the uses of appropriation and the found object, drawing, still and moving image, sound, text, printed matter and performance. Staff and students engage in rigorous, discursive conversation, exploring and developing the ideas generated by student activity, and the subject of sculpture and its possibilities. We consider production in its broadest sense, the contexts of space and place, audience, process, temporal and haptic encounter through the discussion of work, the contexts of art practice and relevant historical and contemporary models of thought. Field visits are made to galleries, studios, factories and sites. Technical support is provided in the use of wood, metal, plastic, ceramics, construction, casting, carving and moulding techniques, moving, still and 3D digital image, sound and printed media.  The undergraduate fine art media area encourages a diverse approach to exploring media and ideas. The area allows students to specialise and develop expertise in a chosen medium or a combination of approaches that test the boundaries and relationships of different media. Students can develop their practice through a broad range of technologies and approaches that include film, video, photography, print, electronic and digital media, drawing, performance, sound, object-making, installation and the production of texts and publications. An experimental and critical approach is encouraged and a wide range of conceptual and practical expertise is provided by staff who are practitioners specialising in the field. Technical tuition and theoretical and philosophical discourse relevant to the area are introduced to students through workshops, gallery visits and seminars.History and theory of art courses in the first two
years are thematic, looking at both historical and contemporary art. They
provide a grounding in histories and theories of art which contributes to
students' overall development as artists and their awareness of the relevance
of these critical studies to the contemporary practising artist. The programme
helps students to contextualize their studio work and to understand and
negotiate the complex relationships between making art and the ways in which
contemporary and historical art is interpreted, displayed and understood. The programme takes the form
of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, written papers and gallery and
museum visits. It is
structured to encourage increasing independence of thinking and the third year Independent
Study is an in-depth research project on a subject chosen by the student and
developed through regular supervision. Students are expected to participate
actively in the programme: reading set texts in preparation for seminars,
visiting exhibitions and generating discussion through informed questioning and
debate. Through a range of assessed assignments, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. BA
students take one additional course from a vast range of options offered in
other UCL departments, normally in their second year. This may relate to their studio
work, for example, a course in anthropology, psychology, architecture or film,
or it may provide an additional skill such as mathematics or computing. The critical studies component of the three-year BFA programme is integrated into the undergraduate studio course and the tutorial system. Students’
understanding of critical studies will be developed through their participation
in seminars, tutorials, lectures, the visiting artists’ programme and gallery and museum visits. Critical studies is designed to provide students with the ability to reference their work within a relevant
contemporary and historical cultural context, to enable students to develop verbal,
written and practical skills in relation to the development of their work and
to enable them to develop effective methods for the presentation of their work. It is supported in the first year by an introductory core course into the contexts and histories of art practice.  Tutorial reports are written twice a year and together
with the students' own evaluative comments, form an individual academic record.
There are assessments of studio work at the end of each year. The assessment
process requires students to demonstrate, through the development of their
studio work, critical awareness and their participation in and contribution to
the programme. It is a constructive process and helps students become aware of
what is required for the final degree examination and exhibition and their
future development as artists. Final-year students present work in the form of
an exhibition or another form of presentation, such as a screening or
performance, at the end of their final year. After the examination process is
complete, the final degree exhibition is open to the public, attracting around
3,000 visitors each year.  Through coursework, seminars, tutorials and more
informal discussion, students develop and refine their skills in articulating
ideas in spoken and written forms and their powers of criticism and
self-criticism. Assessed essays and the third year Independent Study help
students to develop skills that are valuable to their professional life as
artists and or for further study. The programme as a whole promotes independent
research and the critical contextualisation of studio work. Marks for elements
of the history and theory of art programme contribute a total of 20% towards
the final BA degree.   Critical studies is assessed each year and must be
passed in order for the student to progress to the following year of the
programme. Students are required to identify and articulate their work’s critical context and practical concerns by presenting a text and by making a presentation of their work at their end of year assessments. In the second year, the critical studies text is presented before the end of the second term. 












        Applicants for our undergraduate programmes are encouraged to visit the Slade during the autumn term on an organised tour where they can meet a member of academic staff and tour the studios and facilities with a current student. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.       All applications to the BA and BFA in Fine Art at the Slade must be made through UCAS by 15 January at 6.00pm (GMT).       UCAS codes UCL: U80 / BA in Fine Art: W100 / BFA in Fine Art: W101All applicants are required to submit one portfolio for inspection by the entrance examiners. Applicants may choose to submit a physical portfolio for inspection, or, upload a digital portfolio. Portfolio inspections will take place 5th-9th February 2018.        All applicants must pay a handling fee of £15. The £15 handling fee is not returnable.Student submitting in person should submit one portfolio comprising a selection of current and recent work which may include drawings, photographs, sketchbooks and notebooks. Larger paintings or 3D works should be shown as photographic prints. Videos or films should be in QuickTime on a USB drive. A showreel of five minutes’ duration is recommended for these. Each piece of work should be named and dated and where work is reproduced the dimensions of the original should be provided. The portfolio may include coursework, for example from A level or Foundation, but should also include self-initiated work. The portfolio must not measure more than 40”x30” (100cm x 75cm) and must not weigh more than 12kg. Work will not be accepted unless packaged in a durable portfolio. Do not exceed the maximum size and weight. Complete the Portfolio Label and attach it to the outside of your portfolio. Do not stick it to the wrapping paper or the inside of the portfolio.Portfolios may be delivered by hand to the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB on weekdays only from 5 - 9 February 2017 between 9.00am and 10.30am. You can book a date and time online. You will be given a receipt for your portfolio and asked to collect it between 4.00pm and 5.00pm the same day.If you choose to submit a digital portfolio online, you will be sent a link to Slideroom once you have submitted your UCAS application. Applicants submitting a digital portfolio should submit up to twenty images with each image no larger than 5Mb. Titles should be included for each image including the date the work was made, size and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes, no larger than 2Gb. We also encourage applicants to upload a short video featuring pages from sketchbooks. Applicants submitting by Slideroom are required to pay the portfolio handling fee.Slideroom (www.slideroom.com) is a USA based company and users IT infrastructure located in the USA. By uploading your portfolio via you agree that the personal details that you have provided along with your portfolio will be stored and processed in the USA. Slideroom’s privacy policy is available here: www.slideroom.com/privacy.html. UCL will remain responsible for your personal data and acts as the Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998. Further information about ownership of content is available here: www.slideroom.com/applicant_terms.html.Applicants must book a portfolio submission slot, or upload your portfolio to Slideroom by Thursday, 1st February.       If portfolios are not sent in the specified format, they will not be viewed and your application will be rejected. Portfolios will not be viewed without payment of the Portfolio Handling Fee. While all reasonable care is taken of work submitted at all stages of the selection process, work is accepted only on condition that neither UCL, nor its agents, undertake any responsibility for any loss or damage that may be incurred. The £15 handling fee is not returnable. Shortlisted applicants will be invited for interview at the Slade. If you are selected you will be notified by 17th February. Interviews will take place 26th February - 28th February and 5th - 6th March. You will be expected to bring further examples of your work, including larger pieces of work as well as your portfolio. Interview dates can not be rearranged. If you are shortlisted but unable to attend, you must ensure that your portfolio is at the Slade for the examiners to view again when they are making their final decisions. Interviews can not be conducted by telephone or Skype. Applicants who are not shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will be notified through UCAS that their application has been unsuccessful.  The BA and BFA programmes are of equal academic standing and have the same entrance requirements.  In order to be admitted to UCL students must normally be at least 17 years old by the start of the programme. Please list your previous qualifications clearly and completely on the UCAS application form, plus details of any courses you are currently taking. Your qualifications must satisfy the specific degree programme requirements as outlined below.       












Normally, three GCE A
levels at Grades A,B,B, (or equivalent) will be required. A level General Studies
or Critical Thinking are not recognised for admissions purposes.       In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.       A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.All applicants must supply a reference with their UCAS application form. The UCAS website has advice on choosing a referee, whether you are applying through a school or college or as an individual.       In exceptional circumstances, a candidate who does not satisfy the above requirements may be admitted to the programme on the recommendation of the Slade Director and the Dean of Students (Academic).       Applications from 'mature' candidates (aged 21 or over), who may not have a standard educational background, are welcome and are considered individually on their merits.       Applications for deferred entry are not normally considered.       Applicants for the Undergraduate Independent Studio Programme must discuss their course selection with their academic adviser in their home university to ensure that the Independent Studio Programme will provide them with an appropriate credit load and course content. For details of how to apply, see the Application and Study pages in the UCL Study Abroad Guide. Applicants must select the module FINA6601 Independent Studio Programme in Fine Art. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Applicants must also send a portfolio of art work to the Slade. Send a digital portfolio to slade.tlo@ucl.ac.uk via email or UCL Dropbox with up to twenty images (each not more than 1mb) as a PowerPoint presentation. Notes should be included for each image including the title of the work, size, date and materials. Applicants with time-based or performance elements to their work may include a showreel with a maximum duration time of five minutes in QuickTime, no bigger than 2Gb. The showreel should be uploaded as a separate file. It must not be embedded in the PowerPoint presentation. The application form must be sent separately by email to the UCL Access & Admissions Office at affiliatestudents@ucl.ac.uk. The deadline for applications for study commencing in September is 31 March. The deadline for application for study commencing in January is 30 September.  Any student applying for the BA, BFA or Affiliate Study whose education has not been conducted in the English language will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. This is to ensure that their academic progress is not hindered by language difficulties and that they are able to benefit fully from their time at UCL.A list of all the qualifications accepted and the grades required can be found on the UCL website. The Slade requires the Standard level for the BA, BFA and Affiliate Study. The Slade School of Fine Art is number one in this year's Guardian University League Table for Art and Design. See www.theguardian.com/education.
  This should
be read in conjunction with the UCL Scholarships and Funding web pages. UCL’s
tuition fees are set annually and cover registration, tuition and supervision
for each academic year, or part of an academic year that you are enrolled. Tuition fees are
subject to an annual increase. The fee does not cover artists' or other academic
materials. Current fees and further information about fee status, how to pay and living expenses can be found on the UCL Money pages.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These are held on a weekly basis on Tuesdays at 2.00pm and you will have a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions. This is followed by a guided tour of the School by one of our current undergraduate students. Book here.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Undergraduate Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the school and spend some time in the studios, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current undergraduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in May.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two undergraduate programmes, the three-year BFA in Fine Art and the four-year BA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see our BA/BFA Degree and BA/BFA Admissions sections.For further general advice about university study in the UK, UCAS provides a listing of programmes for the UK and contact details for Universities and Colleges.No, we consider everyone in the same way, regardless of age. All applications to the Slade should be made through UCAS by 15 January.No, we do not consider applications for deferred entry.You should apply for either the BA or the BFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the BA/BFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the BA or BFA.No, we do not accept applications through clearing. We offer around 40 undergraduate places each year. It is possible to transfer on to the second year of the BA in Fine Art, but applications for transfer on to the BFA are not accepted. It is not possible to transfer onto the third or fourth years of the BA. You will need to apply in the usual way through UCAS indicating that you are applying for advanced entry and giving full details of the course you have completed for your first year elsewhere. You should also indicate in your UCAS statement whether you would be prepared to be considered for entry into year 1 if the entrance examiners consider that this is more appropriate. Please note that transfers are rare as space is not usually available in year 2. The BA and BFA programmes have the same entrance requirements. Three GCE A levels at Grades A, B, B (or equivalent) are required. In addition candidates must possess GCSEs (or the equivalent) in English Language and Mathematics at Grade C or higher and show evidence of a broad general education.For UK-based students, UCL also requires a Modern Language GCSE at grade C or above for all of its programmes. If you are not studying a Modern Language GCSE this will not prohibit the consideration of your application. For students who do not have a Modern Language GCSE, UCL will provide opportunities to meet the language requirement once enrolled at UCL.A range of other UK as well as international qualifications is recognised and full details can be found in the application and entry section of the UCL website.Many applicants take a Foundation in preparation for degree study in Fine Art, but it is not an entrance requirement at the Slade. No, we do not have a one-year accredited Foundation at the Slade, but we do run an intensive ten-week Foundation course as part of our Summer School. If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. This may be either substantial education (minimum twelve months) or work experience (minimum eighteen months) conducted in English and undertaken no more than the summer two years prior to the proposed date of enrolment, or an acceptable English language qualification or test result awarded no more than two years prior to enrolment. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see the listed acceptable qualifications on UCL's website.The UCL Centre for Languages & International Education offers a a range of English language programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.All applicants are required to apply though UCAS and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. Shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview. The selection for the programmes is made on merit and great care is taken to give every application careful individual consideration. The content of your portfolio should reflect the work you wish to show the examiners; demonstrating a range of your skills, talents and interests. You should include recent work, and self-initiated work (non course-work). For further details see the BA/BFA Admissions section above. The examiners will be considering the following criteria when viewing portfolios: critical awareness; depth and scope of investigation; relevant use of processes and materials; the ability to realise ideas; the ability to contribute to and participate in the course and the ability to establish a self-initiated programme of work. Information regarding size, weight and format specifications for your portfolios can be found in the Admissions section above. All work included in the portfolio should be labelled with a title (if there is one); the date the piece was produced; dimensions (if the piece submitted is a reproduction and not the original); and the materials used. Portfolios can be delivered by hand or submitted electronically, but they must arrive according to the times, dates and instructions in the Admissions section above. If your portfolio is late, we cannot guarantee that it will be considered. Yes, but if you want someone else to collect your portfolio, you should give them a letter signed by you authorising this. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection will receive an email from the Slade inviting them to interview. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified via UCAS. No. Applicants shortlisted at the portfolio inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work. If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the letter giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. Successful applicants will receive an offer in writing from UCL and this will be confirmed formally by UCAS. You should respond to the offer through UCAS. Applicants who are unsuccessful at interview will be notified via UCAS. Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently on, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform UCL Undergraduate Admissions of their results as soon as they receive them. If you are one of the many people awaiting A Level or AS Level results and you meet the conditions of your offer your place will be confirmed by UCAS. You will also receive further information from UCL in due course. If you do not attain the exact grades specified on your offer, you should contact us immediately. Final decisions will be taken by UCL Undergraduate Admissions and will depend upon overall numbers meeting their conditions across the university. UCL has a number of scholarships. To check the details and see if you are eligible to apply for any of them, please see UCL's Scholarships and Funding web page. The Slade has a number of small scholarships. These are awarded by nomination in June each year. You can not apply for these, but all incoming students are considered for any awards for which they are eligible. The primary criterion is merit. Successful candidates will be informed by post in June. For further information, see the section on Fees and Funding.Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art. The Slade School of Fine Art is a world leading art school with a reputation for excellence. As part of UCL, London's Global University, the Slade provides an open and supportive environment for engagement with the process of art making at the highest level, attracting an international community of students. Students are supported to realize and strengthen their creative potential through experimentation, dialogue and fine art making in all its forms.There are around 110 full-time graduate students at the Slade studying 
on either the MA in Fine Art or the MFA in Fine Art. The MA is a 
24-month studio-based programme, which has a taught History and Theory 
of Art component. The MFA is an 18-month studio-based programme with a 
two part, written and oral, Critical Studies component. All students 
follow the same studio programme, working alongside each other in an 
open studio environment, electing to work in the Sculpture, Painting or 
Fine Art Media studios. There is lively cross over between all areas. Watch the video: Graduate students discuss their Slade experience.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.   The Graduate Painting area celebrates painting in all its diverse contemporary forms, and in its long tradition in western art and art of other cultures. Students engage in the practice of painting through a range of approaches, including panels and stretched canvas, wall painting, installation-based painting and painting determined by architectural contexts. Painting is also developed through experimentation with other art forms such as printmaking, photography, film and video, sound, performance and object making.  Drawing is a fundamental concern. Students are encouraged to explore painting at a high level by focusing on the connections between thinking, feeling, looking and making. An inquisitive, enquiring approach to craft is essential to the enrichment of the students’ intellectual and emotional understanding of the medium. Analysis and actualisation of the pleasure and beauty of painting in all its complexity is at the heart of the area. Discussion and debate fuel and sharpen the students’ critical awareness of the nature of painting within a contemporary art context and their ability to question the position of painting today.   Graduate Painting leads two current research projects: the Material Research Project, since 2010, and the Discourse Project, since 2014, both situated in the Methods Room within the Graduate Painting studios. The Graduate Sculpture area invites students working across a range of media to work within an environment of making, experimentation and ideas. It is a practical, studio based area investigating objects, placement, form, space and composite activities, seeking to explore what is distinctive about sculpture and finding out what is possible. The ethos of the course is to embrace a broad range of sculptural practices - from transitory spatial interventions with light, sound or text to the most solid, obstructive forms, such as working with stone, bronze, plaster and clay. The studios are a productive, active environment - space is seen as a shared, flexible resource and the forum for critical attention, debate and imaginative experimentation. Students are expected to work independently within the framework of the graduate programme and wider criticality and awareness of contemporary and historical discourse. Students in the Fine Art Media area pursue their creative ideas through a variety of media, which are supported by both academic and technical staff who hold a broad level of expertise. Currently there are students working with photography, film, video, performance, text, sound, installation, printmaking and all manner of object and image making.  There is no limit or expectation as to the media used in the Fine Art Media area. Although most graduate students in the School will have studied fine art, some may have come to fine art through studying other disciplines, for example music or literature. The wide range of creative activity and cultural experience of the students makes for a rich and diverse studio culture. The aim of the Fine Art Media area is to foster a strong sense of community and group responsibility within the studio, to create a vibrant and stimulating working atmosphere that is informed and critical yet supportive and to help students develop and trust their own judgement and creativity, encouraging independence of vision and thought. Students on the MFA and MA follow the same studio 
course and are based in one studio discipline: painting, sculpture or 
fine art media (which includes electronic media, photography, print, 
performance, sound, film and video). Both programmes are 
research-centred. The main difference between the MFA and the MA lies in
 the distinction between the critical studies in the MFA and the history and theory of art in the MA.  The
 teaching takes place through individual tutorials, small cross-area 
group tutorials made up of both first and second year students from each
 subject area, studio critiques and critical studies seminars, where 
students present their research interests and contextualise their work 
to their peer group. In addition there are 
opportunities to participate in research projects at the Slade Research 
Centre, Woburn Square. These week-long projects provide an opportunity 
to explore ideas alongside students who are based across all three 
areas, and to make work on a larger scale. In addition, a programme of 
visiting artists is arranged throughout the year. The first year
 incorporates a taught programme (delivered through lectures, seminars, 
tutorials and workshops) to upgrade theoretical and technical skills, 
but primarily demands a considerable degree of investigation and 
experimentation.  The second year 
prioritizes individual research (conducted under supervision), building 
on and consolidating the learning and experimentation of the first year,
 leading to original results by graduate students capable of organising 
and implementing an independent programme at this level. The course 
offers several opportunities for the presentation of work to the wider 
public and culminates in the final graduate exhibition. One
 of the Slade's great strengths is the wide range of facilities and 
expertise that it offers to students, regardless of their study area. In
 the School there is a strong commitment to the teaching of both 
traditional and emerging techniques, and analogue and digital 
technologies. These include film and video, analogue and digital 
photography, screen printing, etching, stone lithography and 
bookbinding, alongside continually updated digital resources supported 
by online tutorial learning.  There is a 
comprehensive workshop supporting woodwork, metal work, hot metal, 
ceramics, foundry work and casting, as well as access to laser cutting 
and CADCAM.  The painting studios house a Methods Room for canvas and 
paint preparation and investigation into pigments supported by the Materials Research Project.  Preliminary
 inductions to all the workshops within the Slade take place at the 
beginning of the year and are mandatory in order to use the facilities. 
Further sessions are available to teach new skills or build on existing 
skills, for instance specialist workshops on black and white and colour 
photography, 16mm film-making, photographic lighting, video editing, 
chroma key and the sound studio.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Ignacio Acosta, Mania Akbari and Douglas White, Jane Bustin, Matt Calderwood, Gillian Carnegie, Marcus Coates, Enrico David, Tom Debenham, Nicolas Deshayes, Mel Gooding, Brian Griffiths, Anne Hardy, Melanie Keen (Director, Iniva), Mark Leckey, Christina Mackie, Anthony Malinowski, Jeffrey Charles Henry Peacock, Eddie Peake, Heather Phillipson, Amalia Pica, Nicola Pozzani (Bespoke Perfumer at Floris, London, and Scent educator London College of Fashion and  Y-Institute, Bern University of Arts, Bern, Switzerland), Ruth Proctor, Prem Sahib, Alex Sainsbury (Director, Raven Row), Meekyoung Shin, John Smith (film-maker), Yonatan Vinitsky, Lynette Clarrie Wallis (Curator of Contemporary Art, Tate Britain and Tate Modern), Bruno Wolheim, Yiadom-Boakye, Toby Ziegler The
 History and Theory of Art programme of the MA involves both coursework 
and individual research. The taught component comprises a series of 
weekly seminars in the autumn and spring terms of the first year. The
 taught course work is assessed by means of termly essays that are 
essential for the development of study and writing skills and must be 
passed. The Research Report and assessed course work contribute 25% to 
the final degree award (10% in Year 1, 15% in Year 2) and studio work 
contributes 75%. The Research Report is meant to stand independently 
from studio work and is assessed separately. There may, and indeed 
should, be a connection with studio work, but this may be indirect. The 
topic should in some way be related to art, art history, art theory, 
aesthetics, visual theory, cultural studies or curating. During
 the first year students should attend a seminar programme extending 
over the course of the academic year which introduces them to a varied 
body of ideas and approaches, encourages them to consider the relations 
between theory and practice, and gives them the opportunity to gain 
extra experience in writing. It includes practical sessions on research 
and dissertation writing. These seminars provide students with the 
opportunity to participate in a stimulating and supportive environment 
for intellectual work. Students are expected to develop an approach to 
research and writing that is both inventive and rigorous. Students must 
pass this component of the programme on the basis of their attendance 
and essays.Part 1: a written paper that should consist of 3000 words, or equivalent (but not exclusively visual materials). Part 2:
 an oral presentation of twenty minutes' duration to the internal 
assessors and the student's peer group, followed by five minutes for 
questions. Students are expected to present their research orally and 
visually placing their studio work in a critical context. Critical
 Studies are a key component of the MFA programe and students must pass 
both parts in order to be awarded the MFA in Fine Art. Both parts should
 demonstrate the student's ability to develop, contextualize and 
articulate their research critically in preparation for professional 
practice. Each part is marked Pass/Fail. The 
evaluation of the Critical Studies Part 1 and 2 are subsumed into the 
final degree marking scheme.
    Applicants can take a tour of the Slade during the autumn term which includes a talk by the head of area and a tour of the studios and facilities. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.   The deadline for applications is 5 January 2018. All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online. Late applications will not be considered under any circumstances.   Applicants must complete the online form. All applicants should use the Supplementary Personal Statement section on the online application form to submit a study proposal outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements.All applicants must also upload the following supporting documentation:   When you have completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they view your portfolio. It is recommended that you complete the online application in advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.   All applicants must submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. The portfolio inspection takes place in late January.   Applicants are informed of the results of the portfolio inspection in writing.   It is our policy to invite all shortlisted applicants to interview and in 2018 these will take place in the week beginning 19 February. Interviews cannot be conducted at alternative times or by telephone or skype. If you are invited for interview but unable to attend, you must make sure your portfolio is at the Slade to be viewed by the examiners when final decisions are made. Indicate your availability for interview on the application form. Final decisions and offers of admission are made after the interview period is complete.   Applicants will be required to hold a first degree in Fine Art at second-class UK Honours level or above (or its overseas equivalent) and will be required to satisfy the School that they have an appropriate level of academic achievement. Exceptionally, an applicant with a first degree in a related subject (such as Art History) will be considered, but evidence of a high level of achievement in the chosen studio discipline will also be required.   Applicants will normally be of graduate standing. Exceptionally, an applicant may be considered whose previous education and professional experience are deemed by UCL to be equivalent to graduate level.   Applicants will normally be of degree standing. Students whose education has not been conducted in English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MA the Advanced level is required. For the MFA and Graduate Affiliate Study the Standard level is required.UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of approved English language courses. For all enquiries about either the
MA or MFA programme, please email us on slade.enquiries@ucl.ac.uk.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These include a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions, followed by a tour.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the School and spend some time at the event, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current graduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in June.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two graduate programmes, the two academic year MFA in Fine Art and the two calendar year MA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see above.All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online by 4 January. No, late applications will not be considered.MFA applicants should include a study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MFA applicants do not need to submit a separate Research Proposal or writing sample.Yes, submit your study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of your study and research on the programme, focusing in particular on your studio work. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MA applicants should also upload a Research Proposal (two A4 pages) containing a clear and succinct statement of your proposed area of theoretical research which includes a working title for your history and theory dissertation; the reason why you have chosen the subject; a summary of the knowledge you already have of the subject; the objectives for the research; what areas of study you think the research will involve; what methods you will employ in the research; what sources you will use for the research, i.e., libraries, museums etc, and a brief bibliography. MA applicants must also upload a recent piece of written work 2,500 - 3,000 words in length (upload this as the Additional Document). You should apply for either the MA or the MFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the MA/MFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the MA or MFA.If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see UCL's English Language Proficiency Requirement.The UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.Yes, you can. You will need to demonstrate that your experience and portfolio are of comparable quality to applicants who have studied Fine Art at undergraduate level. Your previous degree may be in a related discipline, e.g. architecture or art history, or you may have graduated some time ago but built a career as a practising artist independently. The strength and appropriateness of your portfolio, study proposal and cv will be crucial in determining whether or not your application is suitable. All applicants should Apply Online and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. All applicants will be able to check the progress of their application through the UCL Portal. You will create a username and password for the UCL Portal when you submit your online application.No. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work.If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the email giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. All applicants should check the UCL Portal regularly for updates on the status of their application. If you are successful, you will be able to view your offer letter via the UCL Portal. You should respond to the offer through the UCL Portal as soon as possible. Applicants who are unsuccessful will also receive confirmation via the UCL Portal.Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently taking, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform the UCL Admissions Office of their results as soon as they receive them.Deferrals are granted in exceptional circumstances. If you wish to defer your place, you must apply in writing (to the Academic Manager at the Slade) outlining the reasons. In most cases, we prefer candidates to reapply. This enables the examiners to view your most recent work.We have a number of small scholarships. Recipients are nominated during 
the summer by the Slade Scholarships and Prizes Committee. There is no 
application procedure, all students who have confirmed their place are 
considered and nominations are made primarily according to entrance 
examination performance and academic merit. See Fees and Funding.You are strongly advised to begin your search for funding opportunities as soon as possible as many deadlines are very early. In the past graduate students at the Slade have been successful in achieving funding from a range of organisations including the following: British Council, Association of Commonwealth Universities, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, IKY, Samstag Scholarship, SAAS, Pola Art Foundation, DAAD, Inlaks Foundation and Charles Wallace India Trust. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.  The Slade School of Fine Art is an art school
with an international outlook, part of UCL, London's global university. The
Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in which to
develop your doctoral research. We welcome applications from students with a
wide range of backgrounds, here in the UK and internationally. Our focus is on
subject areas within the Slade (painting, sculpture and fine art media) and on
interdisciplinary research between the Slade and disciplines offered by UCL. The
Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership. The LAHP annually awards up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts
and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study
or University College London in 2018/19. These studentships, which normally
cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU
students.The aims of the MPhil/PhD programme are to:    The Slade offers a choice between the
following three options within the PhD programme: The MPhil/PhD programme has strong links to
the taught programmes at the Slade and you will also have access to the
School-wide lecture and visiting artists’ programme. The Slade provides
excellent workshop and research facilities.  Current Slade research themes
include: painting, sculpture, fine-art media, materiality, word and image,
landscape and electronic media. As part of UCL we offer an extensive range
of research skill courses through UCL Doctoral School plus support from the Arts and Humanities Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate
Studies (JFIGS) and London Arts and Humanities Research Partnership (LAHP). In addition to
personal tutorials, students participate in: Students are
also expected to attend: In addition we would
expect our students to be active participants in exhibitions, performances,
events, conferences, and publishing both within and beyond UCL.   Head of the Doctoral Programme and
Co-ordinator of the written and practice-related options: Dr Sharon MorrisCo-ordinator of the practice-led option: Dr Hayley Newman (on sabbatical leave Autumn 2017) Your primary
supervisor will be a member of Slade staff, all of whom are practising artists or
scholars in the history and theory of art, with national and international
profiles.   Secondary
supervision is also available from renowned scholars and specialists throughout
UCL, including the sciences where appropriate. Second supervisors currently
include:












 Dr Chiara Ambrosio (Science and Technology Studies), Dr
Tim Beasley-Murray (School of Slavonic & East European Studies, Dr
Stephanie Bird (German), Dr Caroline Bressey (Geography), 












 Dr Victor Buchli (Anthropology),  Dr Ben Campkin (Bartlett School of
Architecture), Professor Susanne
Kord (German), Dr Petra Lange-Berndt (History of Art), Dr Miriam Leonard (Greek and Latin), 












 Prof Tamar Garb (History of Art), Professor Susanne
Kuechler (Anthropology),  Professor Timothy
Mathews (French), Dr Peg Rawes (Bartlett School of
Architecture), 












 Dr Ruth Siddall (Earth Sciences),  Dr Alison Wright (History of Art). There
are also opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision across the London Arts
and Humanities Partnership with staff in King’s College London and the School
of Advanced Studies. Recent and current
visitors to the MPhil/PhD Programme Michael Newman; Kristen Kreider; Howard Caygill; Fiona Sampson; Saradha Soobrayen.Outlines of current and archived MPhil and PhD Research are in theStudent Research section.     There are two application deadlines:   The first application deadline is 30 October 2017. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 5, 6 and 7 December 2017. If you wish to make an application for a LAHP or UCL Scholarship, you should apply for this deadline.   The second application deadline is 26 February 2018. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 24 April 2018.   Both application deadlines are for entry in September 2018.     Applicants can attend the MPhil/PhD Open Day, which will be held 10am – 1pm on Wednesday 4 October 2017. For details on how to book, see our tours booking page.     All applicants for MPhil/PhD and Graduate Affiliate Research should Apply Online. Course code: RRDFINSING01, Programme Title: Research Degree: Slade School.    Applicants must complete the online form and
upload the following supporting documentation:a piece of writing:The Slade does not require applicants to have approached supervisors in advance of making the application to study. However, Slade tutors’ profiles and research interests are listed on our people pages. It is strongly advised that applicants read our staff members’ profiles before submitting an application. If there is a member of staff with whom you would particularly like to work, you may name him or her on the application form; however, supervision by a specific tutor cannot be guaranteed at the application stage.     When you have
completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they
will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their
references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded
by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is
your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references
promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they review your
application. It is recommended that you complete the online application in
advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.If you are applying to take the practice-led or practice-related MPhil/PhD you will be invited to submit your portfolio online via Slideroom. You will need to submit up to fifteen images. Include the title of the work, date, dimensions and medium for each image. Videos and films should be presented as a showreel with a maximum duration of ten minutes. Submissions which do not follow these guidelines cannot be considered.Further details, and a link to the Slade’s Slideroom portfolio submission, will be sent to you once you have submitted the UCL MPhil/PhD application, including instructions for those applicants who do not wish to use SlideroomPlease note that Portfolio deadline for the autumn applicaiton round is 6th November 2017. Applicants who have applied by the 30th October deadline will be sent link to Slideroom.     Dr Sharon Morris Head of the Slade Doctoral Programme, and a small team of senior Slade staff meet to consider all applications and shortlist candidates on the basis of the quality of their studio work, their suitability for research, and the feasibility of their research proposal and its supervision. Shortlisted applicants will be interviewed by the co-ordinators plus the proposed supervisory team.       Successful applicants normally register in
September.      Applicants
will hold a good first degree and will normally be expected to have studied to
MA or MFA level.    All students whose first language is not English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MPhil/PhD the Advanced level is required.For admission enquiries please email Lou Adkin and Clare Meckled-Szembek.Due to the number of applicants we are unable to discuss who to nominate as a supervisor or to advise on proposals before you submit your application, however, you may add names to your application form and if shortlisted we will also suggest possible supervisors. Please look at the Slade website for staff research profiles.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries. There are two application deadlines. Please check the Admissions section above for these deadlines.Please note that if you are applying for a grant or scholarship, you should check the deadline in advance. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this will mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. See the UCL Scholarships and Funding page for further details. All applications are considered by a small team of senior Slade staff and shortlisted candidates are invited for interview. Interviews are conducted by the co-ordinators of the PhD programme plus the proposed supervisory team. Due to the high number of applications received, we are unable to offer feedback on your application or interview.Candidates are expected to begin their programme in September.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities see the following links:UCL Scholarships and Funding UCL Doctoral School Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding that you are applying for. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this may mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions. The Slade School of Fine Art is a world leading art school with a reputation for excellence. As part of UCL, London's Global University, the Slade provides an open and supportive environment for engagement with the process of art making at the highest level, attracting an international community of students. Students are supported to realize and strengthen their creative potential through experimentation, dialogue and fine art making in all its forms.There are around 110 full-time graduate students at the Slade studying 
on either the MA in Fine Art or the MFA in Fine Art. The MA is a 
24-month studio-based programme, which has a taught History and Theory 
of Art component. The MFA is an 18-month studio-based programme with a 
two part, written and oral, Critical Studies component. All students 
follow the same studio programme, working alongside each other in an 
open studio environment, electing to work in the Sculpture, Painting or 
Fine Art Media studios. There is lively cross over between all areas. Watch the video: Graduate students discuss their Slade experience.See the work from the Slade Degree Show 2017.   The Graduate Painting area celebrates painting in all its diverse contemporary forms, and in its long tradition in western art and art of other cultures. Students engage in the practice of painting through a range of approaches, including panels and stretched canvas, wall painting, installation-based painting and painting determined by architectural contexts. Painting is also developed through experimentation with other art forms such as printmaking, photography, film and video, sound, performance and object making.  Drawing is a fundamental concern. Students are encouraged to explore painting at a high level by focusing on the connections between thinking, feeling, looking and making. An inquisitive, enquiring approach to craft is essential to the enrichment of the students’ intellectual and emotional understanding of the medium. Analysis and actualisation of the pleasure and beauty of painting in all its complexity is at the heart of the area. Discussion and debate fuel and sharpen the students’ critical awareness of the nature of painting within a contemporary art context and their ability to question the position of painting today.   Graduate Painting leads two current research projects: the Material Research Project, since 2010, and the Discourse Project, since 2014, both situated in the Methods Room within the Graduate Painting studios. The Graduate Sculpture area invites students working across a range of media to work within an environment of making, experimentation and ideas. It is a practical, studio based area investigating objects, placement, form, space and composite activities, seeking to explore what is distinctive about sculpture and finding out what is possible. The ethos of the course is to embrace a broad range of sculptural practices - from transitory spatial interventions with light, sound or text to the most solid, obstructive forms, such as working with stone, bronze, plaster and clay. The studios are a productive, active environment - space is seen as a shared, flexible resource and the forum for critical attention, debate and imaginative experimentation. Students are expected to work independently within the framework of the graduate programme and wider criticality and awareness of contemporary and historical discourse. Students in the Fine Art Media area pursue their creative ideas through a variety of media, which are supported by both academic and technical staff who hold a broad level of expertise. Currently there are students working with photography, film, video, performance, text, sound, installation, printmaking and all manner of object and image making.  There is no limit or expectation as to the media used in the Fine Art Media area. Although most graduate students in the School will have studied fine art, some may have come to fine art through studying other disciplines, for example music or literature. The wide range of creative activity and cultural experience of the students makes for a rich and diverse studio culture. The aim of the Fine Art Media area is to foster a strong sense of community and group responsibility within the studio, to create a vibrant and stimulating working atmosphere that is informed and critical yet supportive and to help students develop and trust their own judgement and creativity, encouraging independence of vision and thought. Students on the MFA and MA follow the same studio 
course and are based in one studio discipline: painting, sculpture or 
fine art media (which includes electronic media, photography, print, 
performance, sound, film and video). Both programmes are 
research-centred. The main difference between the MFA and the MA lies in
 the distinction between the critical studies in the MFA and the history and theory of art in the MA.  The
 teaching takes place through individual tutorials, small cross-area 
group tutorials made up of both first and second year students from each
 subject area, studio critiques and critical studies seminars, where 
students present their research interests and contextualise their work 
to their peer group. In addition there are 
opportunities to participate in research projects at the Slade Research 
Centre, Woburn Square. These week-long projects provide an opportunity 
to explore ideas alongside students who are based across all three 
areas, and to make work on a larger scale. In addition, a programme of 
visiting artists is arranged throughout the year. The first year
 incorporates a taught programme (delivered through lectures, seminars, 
tutorials and workshops) to upgrade theoretical and technical skills, 
but primarily demands a considerable degree of investigation and 
experimentation.  The second year 
prioritizes individual research (conducted under supervision), building 
on and consolidating the learning and experimentation of the first year,
 leading to original results by graduate students capable of organising 
and implementing an independent programme at this level. The course 
offers several opportunities for the presentation of work to the wider 
public and culminates in the final graduate exhibition. One
 of the Slade's great strengths is the wide range of facilities and 
expertise that it offers to students, regardless of their study area. In
 the School there is a strong commitment to the teaching of both 
traditional and emerging techniques, and analogue and digital 
technologies. These include film and video, analogue and digital 
photography, screen printing, etching, stone lithography and 
bookbinding, alongside continually updated digital resources supported 
by online tutorial learning.  There is a 
comprehensive workshop supporting woodwork, metal work, hot metal, 
ceramics, foundry work and casting, as well as access to laser cutting 
and CADCAM.  The painting studios house a Methods Room for canvas and 
paint preparation and investigation into pigments supported by the Materials Research Project.  Preliminary
 inductions to all the workshops within the Slade take place at the 
beginning of the year and are mandatory in order to use the facilities. 
Further sessions are available to teach new skills or build on existing 
skills, for instance specialist workshops on black and white and colour 
photography, 16mm film-making, photographic lighting, video editing, 
chroma key and the sound studio.Each
 area has a programme of visitors including artists, critics and 
curators who give tutorials, lectures and participate in seminars. Recent visitors include: Ignacio Acosta, Mania Akbari and Douglas White, Jane Bustin, Matt Calderwood, Gillian Carnegie, Marcus Coates, Enrico David, Tom Debenham, Nicolas Deshayes, Mel Gooding, Brian Griffiths, Anne Hardy, Melanie Keen (Director, Iniva), Mark Leckey, Christina Mackie, Anthony Malinowski, Jeffrey Charles Henry Peacock, Eddie Peake, Heather Phillipson, Amalia Pica, Nicola Pozzani (Bespoke Perfumer at Floris, London, and Scent educator London College of Fashion and  Y-Institute, Bern University of Arts, Bern, Switzerland), Ruth Proctor, Prem Sahib, Alex Sainsbury (Director, Raven Row), Meekyoung Shin, John Smith (film-maker), Yonatan Vinitsky, Lynette Clarrie Wallis (Curator of Contemporary Art, Tate Britain and Tate Modern), Bruno Wolheim, Yiadom-Boakye, Toby Ziegler The
 History and Theory of Art programme of the MA involves both coursework 
and individual research. The taught component comprises a series of 
weekly seminars in the autumn and spring terms of the first year. The
 taught course work is assessed by means of termly essays that are 
essential for the development of study and writing skills and must be 
passed. The Research Report and assessed course work contribute 25% to 
the final degree award (10% in Year 1, 15% in Year 2) and studio work 
contributes 75%. The Research Report is meant to stand independently 
from studio work and is assessed separately. There may, and indeed 
should, be a connection with studio work, but this may be indirect. The 
topic should in some way be related to art, art history, art theory, 
aesthetics, visual theory, cultural studies or curating. During
 the first year students should attend a seminar programme extending 
over the course of the academic year which introduces them to a varied 
body of ideas and approaches, encourages them to consider the relations 
between theory and practice, and gives them the opportunity to gain 
extra experience in writing. It includes practical sessions on research 
and dissertation writing. These seminars provide students with the 
opportunity to participate in a stimulating and supportive environment 
for intellectual work. Students are expected to develop an approach to 
research and writing that is both inventive and rigorous. Students must 
pass this component of the programme on the basis of their attendance 
and essays.Part 1: a written paper that should consist of 3000 words, or equivalent (but not exclusively visual materials). Part 2:
 an oral presentation of twenty minutes' duration to the internal 
assessors and the student's peer group, followed by five minutes for 
questions. Students are expected to present their research orally and 
visually placing their studio work in a critical context. Critical
 Studies are a key component of the MFA programe and students must pass 
both parts in order to be awarded the MFA in Fine Art. Both parts should
 demonstrate the student's ability to develop, contextualize and 
articulate their research critically in preparation for professional 
practice. Each part is marked Pass/Fail. The 
evaluation of the Critical Studies Part 1 and 2 are subsumed into the 
final degree marking scheme.
    Applicants can take a tour of the Slade during the autumn term which includes a talk by the head of area and a tour of the studios and facilities. Alternatively, you can visit us during our Open Studios on Wednesday 13 December 2017 from 10am - 3pm or the Degree Shows in the summer term.   The deadline for applications is 5 January 2018. All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online. Late applications will not be considered under any circumstances.   Applicants must complete the online form. All applicants should use the Supplementary Personal Statement section on the online application form to submit a study proposal outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements.All applicants must also upload the following supporting documentation:   When you have completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they view your portfolio. It is recommended that you complete the online application in advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.   All applicants must submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. The portfolio inspection takes place in late January.   Applicants are informed of the results of the portfolio inspection in writing.   It is our policy to invite all shortlisted applicants to interview and in 2018 these will take place in the week beginning 19 February. Interviews cannot be conducted at alternative times or by telephone or skype. If you are invited for interview but unable to attend, you must make sure your portfolio is at the Slade to be viewed by the examiners when final decisions are made. Indicate your availability for interview on the application form. Final decisions and offers of admission are made after the interview period is complete.   Applicants will be required to hold a first degree in Fine Art at second-class UK Honours level or above (or its overseas equivalent) and will be required to satisfy the School that they have an appropriate level of academic achievement. Exceptionally, an applicant with a first degree in a related subject (such as Art History) will be considered, but evidence of a high level of achievement in the chosen studio discipline will also be required.   Applicants will normally be of graduate standing. Exceptionally, an applicant may be considered whose previous education and professional experience are deemed by UCL to be equivalent to graduate level.   Applicants will normally be of degree standing. Students whose education has not been conducted in English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MA the Advanced level is required. For the MFA and Graduate Affiliate Study the Standard level is required.UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of approved English language courses. For all enquiries about either the
MA or MFA programme, please email us on slade.enquiries@ucl.ac.uk.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries.Yes, all applicants are encouraged to visit the Slade and there are a number of opportunities to do so.Ideally, you should come on a Tour of the School during the autumn term; this is bookable online. These include a talk by a member of academic staff and the opportunity to ask questions, followed by a tour.In the last week of the autumn term there is an Open Studios event where you can meet academic staff, see the School and spend some time at the event, perhaps listening to a crit or talking to current students. For details, click here. Booking is not required.If you miss the Tours and Open Studios, but you are shortlisted for interview, you will have an opportunity to meet a current graduate student and have a tour of the building on the day of your interview.You can also visit the end of year Degree Shows in June.Please note that the studios are private working spaces and ad hoc or unplanned visits can not be arranged.We offer two graduate programmes, the two academic year MFA in Fine Art and the two calendar year MA in Fine Art. For information on programme content, please see above.All applicants for the MA in Fine Art, the MFA in Fine Art and Graduate Affiliate Study should Apply Online by 4 January. No, late applications will not be considered.MFA applicants should include a study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of their study and research on the programme. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MFA applicants do not need to submit a separate Research Proposal or writing sample.Yes, submit your study proposal in the Supplementary Personal Statement on the application form outlining the projected nature of your study and research on the programme, focusing in particular on your studio work. Describe your academic interests and reasons for applying. Outline the ways in which you will use the programme, resources and staff expertise at the Slade (and UCL) to develop your work and ideas. Include any relevant professional achievements. MA applicants should also upload a Research Proposal (two A4 pages) containing a clear and succinct statement of your proposed area of theoretical research which includes a working title for your history and theory dissertation; the reason why you have chosen the subject; a summary of the knowledge you already have of the subject; the objectives for the research; what areas of study you think the research will involve; what methods you will employ in the research; what sources you will use for the research, i.e., libraries, museums etc, and a brief bibliography. MA applicants must also upload a recent piece of written work 2,500 - 3,000 words in length (upload this as the Additional Document). You should apply for either the MA or the MFA. For details about the difference between the two programmes, please look at the MA/MFA Degrees section above. There is not a quota for each programme, so the best candidates will be selected regardless of whether they have applied for the MA or MFA.If English is not your first language you must provide recent evidence that your command of the English language is adequate for you to benefit fully from the programme at the Slade. For full details of the qualifications that are acceptable and the minimum levels required in them, please see UCL's English Language Proficiency Requirement.The UCL Centre for Languages and International Education offers a range of programmes recognised for the purpose of satisfying UCL's English language proficiency requirement.Yes, you can. You will need to demonstrate that your experience and portfolio are of comparable quality to applicants who have studied Fine Art at undergraduate level. Your previous degree may be in a related discipline, e.g. architecture or art history, or you may have graduated some time ago but built a career as a practising artist independently. The strength and appropriateness of your portfolio, study proposal and cv will be crucial in determining whether or not your application is suitable. All applicants should Apply Online and submit a portfolio for consideration by the entrance examiners. All applicants will be able to check the progress of their application through the UCL Portal. You will create a username and password for the UCL Portal when you submit your online application.No. Applicants shortlisted at the Portfolio Inspection are invited to attend a personal interview at the Slade with their portfolio and further work.If you are invited for interview and are unable to attend at the time you have been given, call or email the person who has sent you the email giving details as soon as possible. Alternative dates and times can only be arranged during the scheduled interview week, where space is available. All shortlisted applicants are invited for personal interview, regardless of where they live. We understand that not all candidates can attend if they live overseas, though you are encouraged to do so if possible. If you can not attend, you must make sure your portfolio is available for viewing by the entrance examiners during the interview week. All applicants should check the UCL Portal regularly for updates on the status of their application. If you are successful, you will be able to view your offer letter via the UCL Portal. You should respond to the offer through the UCL Portal as soon as possible. Applicants who are unsuccessful will also receive confirmation via the UCL Portal.Offers may be 'unconditional', which means that you have already satisfied the entry requirements, or 'conditional' if they are subject to you completing a course you are currently taking, or passing any exams you may have pending, or on obtaining certain grades. Applicants with conditional offers should inform the UCL Admissions Office of their results as soon as they receive them.Deferrals are granted in exceptional circumstances. If you wish to defer your place, you must apply in writing (to the Academic Manager at the Slade) outlining the reasons. In most cases, we prefer candidates to reapply. This enables the examiners to view your most recent work.We have a number of small scholarships. Recipients are nominated during 
the summer by the Slade Scholarships and Prizes Committee. There is no 
application procedure, all students who have confirmed their place are 
considered and nominations are made primarily according to entrance 
examination performance and academic merit. See Fees and Funding.You are strongly advised to begin your search for funding opportunities as soon as possible as many deadlines are very early. In the past graduate students at the Slade have been successful in achieving funding from a range of organisations including the following: British Council, Association of Commonwealth Universities, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, IKY, Samstag Scholarship, SAAS, Pola Art Foundation, DAAD, Inlaks Foundation and Charles Wallace India Trust. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand.
The Barto Dos Santos Memorial Award of £5,000 is for outstanding achievement by a final year graduate student. Bartolomeu Dos Santos was the Slade’s Head of Printmaking from 1961 and a Professor of Fine Art from 1994 until his death in 2008. This generous award has been endowed in perpetuity by a former student of Barto dos Santos, Max Werner. Max graduated from the Slade in 1985 and remained a close friend of Barto, as did many of Barto’s students. Max went on to teach printmaking at the Slade before setting up an etching workshop in London in 1990. He subsequently moved to Argentina to develop his artistic practice further, before moving to the USA where his studio is currently based. Max is a practicing artist and exhibits his work internationally.Barto Dos Santos Bartolomeu Cid dos Santos, born Lisbon 1931, arrived in the autumn of 1956 at the age of 25 to study for a single graduate year at the Slade. During that time the Slade Professor, Sir William Coldstream introduced him to Anthony Gross, Head of Printmaking, and to the world of print that was to change his life forever.  At the end of the year he was awarded the first prize for etching. ‘I did not know what the word etcher meant’, he later said. ‘But I soon found out, and with it the potentialities of aquatint with its deep, profound blacks and beautiful half tones that Goya understood so well’.Barto, as he was always known, began teaching at the Slade shortly after, became Head of Printmaking in 1961 and Professor of Fine Art in 1994.  In 1995 he was elected as a Fellow of University College London, and on retirement in 1996 Emeritus Professor of the University of London. He was also awarded the Order of Prince Henry by the President of Portugal in 1993 for services to Portuguese culture abroad.After his retirement Barto continued to live and work between London and Portugal and during the summer vacations he would take up residency for a month in one of the Slade studios to tackle the ‘unfinished business’ of painting. During those summers he painted with the energy and commitment of a young man producing vast quantities of vibrant and lucid canvases. Barto’s dedication to printmaking and the school has been profound and his influence, which helped shape the school, is still very much evident today. A single study year abroad at the Slade became a love affair that lasted for 52 years until his death in 2008.Jo Volley, Senior Lecturer in Painting  The Slade School of Fine Art is an art school
with an international outlook, part of UCL, London's global university. The
Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in which to
develop your doctoral research. We welcome applications from students with a
wide range of backgrounds, here in the UK and internationally. Our focus is on
subject areas within the Slade (painting, sculpture and fine art media) and on
interdisciplinary research between the Slade and disciplines offered by UCL. The
Slade is part of the AHRC funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership. The LAHP annually awards up to 80 studentships for postgraduate research students studying arts
and humanities disciplines at King’s College London, School of Advanced Study
or University College London in 2018/19. These studentships, which normally
cover fees and maintenance allowance (stipend), are available to UK and EU
students.The aims of the MPhil/PhD programme are to:    The Slade offers a choice between the
following three options within the PhD programme: The MPhil/PhD programme has strong links to
the taught programmes at the Slade and you will also have access to the
School-wide lecture and visiting artists’ programme. The Slade provides
excellent workshop and research facilities.  Current Slade research themes
include: painting, sculpture, fine-art media, materiality, word and image,
landscape and electronic media. As part of UCL we offer an extensive range
of research skill courses through UCL Doctoral School plus support from the Arts and Humanities Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate
Studies (JFIGS) and London Arts and Humanities Research Partnership (LAHP). In addition to
personal tutorials, students participate in: Students are
also expected to attend: In addition we would
expect our students to be active participants in exhibitions, performances,
events, conferences, and publishing both within and beyond UCL.   Head of the Doctoral Programme and
Co-ordinator of the written and practice-related options: Dr Sharon MorrisCo-ordinator of the practice-led option: Dr Hayley Newman (on sabbatical leave Autumn 2017) Your primary
supervisor will be a member of Slade staff, all of whom are practising artists or
scholars in the history and theory of art, with national and international
profiles.   Secondary
supervision is also available from renowned scholars and specialists throughout
UCL, including the sciences where appropriate. Second supervisors currently
include:












 Dr Chiara Ambrosio (Science and Technology Studies), Dr
Tim Beasley-Murray (School of Slavonic & East European Studies, Dr
Stephanie Bird (German), Dr Caroline Bressey (Geography), 












 Dr Victor Buchli (Anthropology),  Dr Ben Campkin (Bartlett School of
Architecture), Professor Susanne
Kord (German), Dr Petra Lange-Berndt (History of Art), Dr Miriam Leonard (Greek and Latin), 












 Prof Tamar Garb (History of Art), Professor Susanne
Kuechler (Anthropology),  Professor Timothy
Mathews (French), Dr Peg Rawes (Bartlett School of
Architecture), 












 Dr Ruth Siddall (Earth Sciences),  Dr Alison Wright (History of Art). There
are also opportunities for interdisciplinary supervision across the London Arts
and Humanities Partnership with staff in King’s College London and the School
of Advanced Studies. Recent and current
visitors to the MPhil/PhD Programme Michael Newman; Kristen Kreider; Howard Caygill; Fiona Sampson; Saradha Soobrayen.Outlines of current and archived MPhil and PhD Research are in theStudent Research section.     There are two application deadlines:   The first application deadline is 30 October 2017. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 5, 6 and 7 December 2017. If you wish to make an application for a LAHP or UCL Scholarship, you should apply for this deadline.   The second application deadline is 26 February 2018. Interviews for shortlisted candidates will take place on 24 April 2018.   Both application deadlines are for entry in September 2018.     Applicants can attend the MPhil/PhD Open Day, which will be held 10am – 1pm on Wednesday 4 October 2017. For details on how to book, see our tours booking page.     All applicants for MPhil/PhD and Graduate Affiliate Research should Apply Online. Course code: RRDFINSING01, Programme Title: Research Degree: Slade School.    Applicants must complete the online form and
upload the following supporting documentation:a piece of writing:The Slade does not require applicants to have approached supervisors in advance of making the application to study. However, Slade tutors’ profiles and research interests are listed on our people pages. It is strongly advised that applicants read our staff members’ profiles before submitting an application. If there is a member of staff with whom you would particularly like to work, you may name him or her on the application form; however, supervision by a specific tutor cannot be guaranteed at the application stage.     When you have
completed the online form and entered contact emails for your referees, they
will be contacted automatically giving them instructions on how to upload their
references. All applications must include two references that must be uploaded
by your referees. References are an important part of the application and it is
your responsibility to ensure that your referees upload their references
promptly so that the entrance examiners have them when they review your
application. It is recommended that you complete the online application in
advance of the deadline to give your referees time to complete their references.If you are applying to take the practice-led or practice-related MPhil/PhD you will be invited to submit your portfolio online via Slideroom. You will need to submit up to fifteen images. Include the title of the work, date, dimensions and medium for each image. Videos and films should be presented as a showreel with a maximum duration of ten minutes. Submissions which do not follow these guidelines cannot be considered.Further details, and a link to the Slade’s Slideroom portfolio submission, will be sent to you once you have submitted the UCL MPhil/PhD application, including instructions for those applicants who do not wish to use SlideroomPlease note that Portfolio deadline for the autumn applicaiton round is 6th November 2017. Applicants who have applied by the 30th October deadline will be sent link to Slideroom.     Dr Sharon Morris Head of the Slade Doctoral Programme, and a small team of senior Slade staff meet to consider all applications and shortlist candidates on the basis of the quality of their studio work, their suitability for research, and the feasibility of their research proposal and its supervision. Shortlisted applicants will be interviewed by the co-ordinators plus the proposed supervisory team.       Successful applicants normally register in
September.      Applicants
will hold a good first degree and will normally be expected to have studied to
MA or MFA level.    All students whose first language is not English must reach a satisfactory level of proficiency in English language before starting their studies at the Slade.Various English language qualifications are acceptable. For the MPhil/PhD the Advanced level is required.For admission enquiries please email Lou Adkin and Clare Meckled-Szembek.Due to the number of applicants we are unable to discuss who to nominate as a supervisor or to advise on proposals before you submit your application, however, you may add names to your application form and if shortlisted we will also suggest possible supervisors. Please look at the Slade website for staff research profiles.For further information, see our fees and funding section for information about tuition fees, funding, scholarships and bursaries. There are two application deadlines. Please check the Admissions section above for these deadlines.Please note that if you are applying for a grant or scholarship, you should check the deadline in advance. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this will mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. See the UCL Scholarships and Funding page for further details. All applications are considered by a small team of senior Slade staff and shortlisted candidates are invited for interview. Interviews are conducted by the co-ordinators of the PhD programme plus the proposed supervisory team. Due to the high number of applications received, we are unable to offer feedback on your application or interview.Candidates are expected to begin their programme in September.For details of UCL Scholarships and other UCL funding opportunities see the following links:UCL Scholarships and Funding UCL Doctoral School Joint Faculty Institute of Graduate Studies Please look carefully at the deadline for any funding that you are applying for. Most funding deadlines fall several months before the programme begins. Many deadlines fall in the spring and this may mean that you need to apply to the Slade by the November deadline in order to have secured a place on the programme in time to apply for funding. Yes, as well as feedback and teaching which is informed by the professional 'art world' knowledge and international perspective of Slade staff, the Slade runs its own bespoke series of careers talks for all final year students, in conjunction with the UCL Careers Service. Sessions are led by Slade staff, with invited guest speakers, and cover various topics such as artist fees, pricing work, fundraising and writing successful grant applications, finding a studio, how to write press releases etc. The programme has been recognised as 'best practice' across the wider University. For more information see: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/teaching-learning/case-studies/2017/jun/getting-students-career-ready-ucl-slade-school-fine-art.The Slade welcomes students from all over the world to its degree programmes. It also provides opportunities for international students at all levels to study at the Slade for shorter periods of time as affiliate students. For undergraduates the Slade has exchange agreements with a number of schools internationally providing the opportunity for Slade BA and BFA students to study abroad.   All undergraduates
are eligible to apply for study abroad for one term. These international
exchanges normally take place in the first term of the third year for BA
students and the first term of the second year for BFA students. The Slade
currently has exchange agreements with schools in the United States, Europe,
Israel and China. The European exchanges are part of the European Union Erasmus Programme. Academy of Fine Arts, Städelschule, FrankfurtAcademy of Fine Arts, Helsinki Academy of Fine Arts, Vienna Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New YorkÉcole Nationale Supérieure des Beaux Arts, Paris Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, ChinaMalmö Art AcademyNew York Studio School School of the Art Institute of ChicagoThe Slade offers a small number of places to undergraduate affiliate students of proven ability and commitment to study on the full-time Independent Studio Programme, specialising in painting, sculpture or fine art media. Affiliate students follow the same studio programme as students studying on the BA and BFA in Fine Art. Students work in the studios and are assigned to a tutorial group which meets regularly. They are expected to be highly motivated and, under the guidance of their personal tutor, able to generate and sustain their own programme of work. Members of the teaching staff of the undergraduate school are available for tutorials and students are expected to participate fully in studio and seminar programmes. First-hand study of works of art in galleries and museums is an essential part of the course.All BA students at the Slade attend courses in the history and theory of art and affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with the head of taught courses in history and theory of art. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability.The Slade also organises a series of Contemporary Art Lectures featuring distinguished speakers from both the UK and overseas, which is open to all students.There are three terms in the academic year and students may enrol on the affiliate programme for Formal teaching takes place in the first two terms, autumn and spring. The summer term is reserved for revision and assessment. The programme provides 32 credits/60 ECTS for the full year or 16 credits/30 ECTS for either autumn or spring/summer terms respectively.For application procedures, see Undergraduate Admissions. Students of degree standing may enrol full-time at the Slade to work alongside students studying for the MA and MFA. Students specialise in painting, sculpture or fine art media. (For further details see studio programmes in the MA and MFA in Fine Art.) All students are allocated studio space and a tutorial group and are expected to develop their own programme of work with tutorial guidance and technical support.MA students at the Slade attend courses in history and theory of art and graduate affiliate students may select a course according to their needs, in consultation with history and theory of art staff. They are expected to complete the assessed work for the course chosen. Exchange students may elect to take History and Theory courses, subject to availability. If this is a requirement of your home institution, please indicate this in your application.The Slade also offers a series of Contemporary Art Lectures which features distinguished speakers both from the UK and abroad, open to all students.For application procedures, see Graduate Admissions. The Slade offers students of outstanding quality, registered for research degrees in other institutions, the opportunity to study in the School for three months to one year. Usually such applications are from students resident overseas for whom a period of study in London is an integral part of their research. Programmes and supervision are arranged on an entirely individual basis.Further details about the research programme at the Slade can be found in the MPhil/PhD section. To apply, see MPhil/PhD Admissions.The Slade offers two undergraduate programmes, the BA and the BFA in Fine Art; two Masters programmes, the MA and MFA in Fine Art; the MPhil/PhD in Fine Art, plus affiliate student programmes at all levels. An experimental research-oriented approach is at the heart of a studio-centred teaching environment, with each student - from BA/BFA through to PhD - expected to conduct individual and original research from day one.We
provide studio-centred teaching on our three year  BFA and four year BA.  At Graduate level we offer two
studio-based, research-centred programmes in Fine Art. A two calendar-year MA and a two academic-year MFA.The Slade offers a supportive, stimulating and creative environment in
which to develop your doctoral research. We
have undergraduate exchange agreements with schools in the United States,
Europe, Israel and China and provide opportunities to international students at all levels for affiliate study.The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter.The Slade School of Fine
Art offers a wide programme of non-degree Short Courses. The Evening, Saturday and Easter courses take place in the
studios at Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square and the Summer School Short Courses take place in the main Slade building. Courses are taught by practising artists, many of
whom studied at the Slade. They are
designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable
further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own
practise after completing the course. We offer two five-week Saturday courses during the autumn term, one eight-week evening courses on Mondays in autumn;
there are also two one-week courses at Easter. During the summer, there are one and two-week short courses. There is a lively, creative
dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.From 2015 the Slade will also be offering The London Summer Intensive, an annual four week residency programme for artists in collaboration with Camden Arts Centre. For more information see The London Intensive website.Our
Summer School Short Course Programme includes a range of one and two-week
courses as well as a unique ten-week Summer School Foundation in Fine Art.During the spring term, we run an eight-week evening course on Mondays. 
 During the autumn and spring terms, there are two five-week Saturday courses. 
   We run four one-week courses at Easter.Easter courses are taught by practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own practise after completing the course. There is a lively, creative dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithShort Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. The Life Painting course fee
includes a £5 levy which covers a supply of supports and grounds for studies
but not your final canvas. You must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 oremail sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith Evening courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The fees for the Drawing and Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for supports and grounds (paper, canvas boards) and some wet materials and painting mediums. You will be sent a materials list with your course letter which outlines the materials we supply, and you must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra SmithThe Expanded Field of Drawing (EFD) is an advanced course which utilizes an interrogative approach to drawing – one that extends outwards into a variety of creative fields, while at the same time offering an insight into one’s own personal relationship and definition of drawing. The title, The Expanded Field of Drawing, suggests that it is a “drawing” course, however, it is in fact much more than that.  It is course that uses ideas and processes relative to drawing as a starting point for both critical dialogue and artistic output. When the course was originally created some 6 years ago, it was set up as a type of advanced drawing course.  Realizing that the title of “advanced drawing” had certain connotations which often focus more on technical skills than content, it became crucial to create, and rename, a course that included a conceptual/contextual underpinning, but still focused on the act of making. Based loosely on the critique presented by Rosalind Krauss in her seminal essay from 1979, “Sculpture in the Expanded Field”, EFD opens up the debate around the current role of drawing in contemporary art practice.  Thus, The Expanded Field of Drawing was born, and it has by it’s own inquisitive nature evolved into a course where artists/creatives from a variety of disciplines come together to produce work in a communal studio and question the role of drawing within their practice. While this course is open to all individuals with some experience of drawing, it is best suited to those practitioners who are self-directed and able to work independently.  The course is structured over two weeks, with the option to extend studies into a third week.  The first week focuses on specific drawing experiments created by tutors, where students may learn new techniques or approaches to drawing.  The second week is designed as independent study, supported by material-specific workshops and one-to-one tutorials, where each individual is encouraged to expand on ideas within their own practice.  There are opportunities to use various media at this stage with support from tutors and technical staff. If participants opt for the additional third week, the work will be completely self-initiated and students will be given the time and space to develop personal interests, benefitting from one-to-one tutorials with staff and access to technical equipment.  Additionally, the third week will culminate in a group exhibition at Slade which will be open to the public. Throughout the two/three weeks, there will be gallery visits, lectures, and informal discussions to utilize London and all its assets.The outcomes of the weeks’ work often take on a variety of forms, from traditional pen/pencil/charcoal drawings to other media including installation, sculpture, photography, video, projection, performance, and sound.  Participants are encouraged to use the generous studio spaces to explore ambitious projects that might not otherwise be possible.  Despite the media being used, there is always an undercurrent of how each of these modes of working relate to drawing. For many students, the course provides a recharge and challenge to current studio practices – whereby the work created during the course develops into a much larger body of work in years to come.  Over the years EFD alumni have gone on to do MFA/MA’s, attend residencies, and exhibit their own work in galleries and public spaces.  Additionally, because of the communal nature of the course, many students stay in touch and develop a support structure/network to continue the dialogue and critique of their work across the globe.The Expanded Field of Drawing (EFD) is an advanced course which utilizes an interrogative approach to drawing – one that extends outwards into a variety of creative fields, while at the same time offering an insight into one’s own personal relationship and definition of drawing. The title, The Expanded Field of Drawing, suggests that it is a “drawing” course, however, it is in fact much more than that.  It is course that uses ideas and processes relative to drawing as a starting point for both critical dialogue and artistic output. When the course was originally created some 6 years ago, it was set up as a type of advanced drawing course.  Realizing that the title of “advanced drawing” had certain connotations which often focus more on technical skills than content, it became crucial to create, and rename, a course that included a conceptual/contextual underpinning, but still focused on the act of making. Based loosely on the critique presented by Rosalind Krauss in her seminal essay from 1979, “Sculpture in the Expanded Field”, EFD opens up the debate around the current role of drawing in contemporary art practice.  Thus, The Expanded Field of Drawing was born, and it has by it’s own inquisitive nature evolved into a course where artists/creatives from a variety of disciplines come together to produce work in a communal studio and question the role of drawing within their practice. While this course is open to all individuals with some experience of drawing, it is best suited to those practitioners who are self-directed and able to work independently.  The course is structured over two weeks, with the option to extend studies into a third week.  The first week focuses on specific drawing experiments created by tutors, where students may learn new techniques or approaches to drawing.  The second week is designed as independent study, supported by material-specific workshops and one-to-one tutorials, where each individual is encouraged to expand on ideas within their own practice.  There are opportunities to use various media at this stage with support from tutors and technical staff. If participants opt for the additional third week, the work will be completely self-initiated and students will be given the time and space to develop personal interests, benefitting from one-to-one tutorials with staff and access to technical equipment.  Additionally, the third week will culminate in a group exhibition at Slade which will be open to the public. Throughout the two/three weeks, there will be gallery visits, lectures, and informal discussions to utilize London and all its assets.The outcomes of the weeks’ work often take on a variety of forms, from traditional pen/pencil/charcoal drawings to other media including installation, sculpture, photography, video, projection, performance, and sound.  Participants are encouraged to use the generous studio spaces to explore ambitious projects that might not otherwise be possible.  Despite the media being used, there is always an undercurrent of how each of these modes of working relate to drawing. For many students, the course provides a recharge and challenge to current studio practices – whereby the work created during the course develops into a much larger body of work in years to come.  Over the years EFD alumni have gone on to do MFA/MA’s, attend residencies, and exhibit their own work in galleries and public spaces.  Additionally, because of the communal nature of the course, many students stay in touch and develop a support structure/network to continue the dialogue and critique of their work across the globe.Easter courses are taught by practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and developments within the wider remit of their own practise after completing the course. There is a lively, creative dialogue between the students and tutors across the different courses.This
 course allows students the opportunity to work from the model in a 
sustained pose. Through intense looking, students are encouraged to 
consider their process of working, with an emphasis on developing a 
method though experimentation, reassessment and revision, using oil 
paint. The course is open to students of all levels although we recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Drawing materials plus your usual painting kit. Advice on buying further materials will be given in the first session.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Ian RowlandsKate HopkinsThis course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn/spring term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithShort Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. The Life Painting course fee
includes a £5 levy which covers a supply of supports and grounds for studies
but not your final canvas. You must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 oremail sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Evening courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and painting panels will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra SmithThis course gives students the opportunity to explore the core skills of drawing. The emphasis of the course is to explore drawing as a means of articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore and nurture ideas through drawing and as a feeder for ideas into their own art practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The eight sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line, composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective. Students will draw from a life model for three of the eight sessions. They will experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced but would like to explore the underpinnings and process of drawing. This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session:Range of pencils 2h – 6bErasers (putty and tablet)1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped penLightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)Masking tapeKnife/Pencil sharpenerSketchbook (recommended)We will provide paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow charcoal.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate Hopkins Ian Rowlands Sandra Smith  This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first
principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for
articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The
course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry
and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary
sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria
helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but
also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be
questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating
a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special
attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions
of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.   This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.  You will need to
bring the following materials for the first session: A
mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’
brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet
wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing.
Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre. We recommend that each student bring a
sketchbook. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order
to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.
  Easels, drawing boards and painting
panels will be provided.  
 N.B. You will receive a more detailed
materials list once your booking has been confirmed. Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format. The course fee covers tuition, provision of an easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The fees for the Drawing and Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for supports and grounds (paper, canvas boards) and some wet materials and painting mediums. You will be sent a materials list with your course letter which outlines the materials we supply, and you must supply all other materials yourself. Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course. Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins. Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.   The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time. Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby. Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.  Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Saturday courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.If you would like to be added to our mailing list, please 
contact sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. Who should take this course? This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithThis course is designed to extend your core skills in drawing towards composing paintings. It is structured to provide students with a series of practical strategies that help you to translate your own ideas and imagery into painted compositions. We begin with exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at objects and their qualities. These drawings are then translated from tone and line into colour, from one surface and scale to another, enriched by the introduction of secondary sources and composed by organising the pictorial space. Students will learn to extrapolate subject matter from their own preparatory material such as sketches, photographic documentation, objects and text. Who should take this course? This course suits beginners, or those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting, as well as students who have learnt first principles on the Autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting and wish to develop work towards their own ideas.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: HB and 2B pencils, charcoal, India rubber, Masking tape, Sketchbook (recommended). A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre yellow ochre. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith This course gives students the
opportunity to explore core drawing skills. We will use drawing as a means of
articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore
and nurture ideas through drawing and as inspiration for their own art
practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual
enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The five
sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line,
composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective.
Students will also have the opportunity to draw from a life model in the third session. They will
experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink,
white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage
with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring
the following materials for the first session: Range of pencils 2h –
6b

Erasers (putty and tablet)

1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped pen

Lightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)

Masking tape

Knife/Pencil sharpener
 Sketchbook (recommended) We will provide
paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow
charcoal.
 
 N.B. You
will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been
confirmed.Course
Tutors Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith  This course offers students the
opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to
look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression
and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the
starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human
figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the
course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of
representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within
the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions
will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning
the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition.
The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can
work with oils or acrylic.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.    You will need to bring the following materials: Masking tape

Paints (oils or acrylics) 

Odourless thinners (for oil paints)

Retarding medium (for acrylic paints)

Brushes

Palette knives

Screw Top Jar

Rags or kitchen roll

Sketchbook (recommended)
  We will provide easels, palettes, primer,
gum strip, oil painting paper, painting mediums, supports (wooden panels,
canvas boards and canvasses) and white spirit.
 
  N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking
has been confirmed.   Course Tutors Daniel PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith  Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.  The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. You must supply all other materials yourself.  Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course.  Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins.  Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.    The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time.  Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby.  Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.   Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.  The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.uk This unique artist led course provides an innovative platform across one week for students to expand their experience of creative ways to develop photography. It questions the limits and definition of Photography. It offers a sustained period of time experimenting with work in darkrooms and alternative spaces. These experiments are supported and informed by slide talks, seminars and the sharing of research. The aim is to encourage fresh and individual experiments of student’s ideas. We welcome artists, photographers, scientists and any one who has a creative interest in the medium. ‘The Larder and the Banquet’ as an extension of (Part.1) ‘The Kitchen and the Table’ is a workshop based in an exploration of mediums, resources and concepts. Part.2 is a production week where you implement your ideas.  You can also attend Part.2 independently by sending a brief portfolio (max. 10 images) of your work and a motivation letter (max. 300 words). The motivation letter should explain your interests and describe the work you want to develop (demonstrate your work mediums). The spirit of enquiry fostered in this new course grew out of an significant body of research developed by Alfonso Borragán in collaboration with Esther Llorca and made manifest in a series of workshops conducted over the last six years with a wide number of students. It seeks to re-address the speculative origins of photography in order to discuss and experiment with the future possibilities of the medium.  This workshop is an immersive collective research space for students to develop their practice. This ‘creative laboratory’ provides support to experiment and research in order to stretch the limits of your work. From day 1 and throughout the week, the workshop will be driven by your personal investigation, underpinned by group discussions and tutorials. The aim is that this combination of practical research with critical debate will amplify and deepen your interests, techniques and a conceptual framework within the medium.  The workshop will be developed between the darkroom, the studio and outdoors. The school will provide basic materials and chemicals for alternative processes, but if you want to work with a very specific medium you will need to bring your own materials. A notable contribution to the workshops and seminars on this course is that they take place within the interdisciplinary context of UCL, enabling contact with and visits to relevant specialised scientific departments. The nature of Photography is confined by narrow, formalised definitions. Photography developed quickly into a visual representational system to copy reality and endure memory. From the ‘Albumen Prints’ to the ‘Daguerreotypes’, photography became a chemical conquest of mechanical reproduction systems. Furthermore it became a race against time, where cameras and photosensitive emulsions become fast apparatuses to capture small fragments of time. In this process the loss of the Camera Lucida and latent images, such as Anthotypes, are clear examples of the limitations. This modern dream disregards in its development every technique or technology that is not useful for its intentions. The complexity and linearity of the history of Photography shows once again the loss of the ‘non-productive’ mediums. The materiality of photography resides in its capacity to capture light. Here we can consider not only visible light, but also the Physics of light that refers to the electromagnetic radiation of any wavelength. This expands the material idea of photography and the understanding of the image. Thus, it transforms physical and conceptual qualities of photography to a record of traces. The flat surface becomes a deep surface with different layers exposed to forensic readings.  Here we can consider a ‘proto-photography’ that explores all these forgotten technologies and creates new ones to situate them in the future. We will examine the potentiality of the medium as an experimentation tool in itself. To understand photography as a representational tool, we need to re-consider photography as a material. This workshop aims to open a discussion and apply this to producing work that addresses an expanded understanding of photography. Through darkroom processes, with chemicals, light and as many materials as we can consider for experimentation, followed by a carefully supported look at the results, we will discover possibilities for new ideas and new works. The aim is that the participants will develop a body of work or series of experiments that can serve starting as a point for future projects. The work produced during this week would be suitable for students who want to put together a portfolio for application for further study of Fine Art photography. For artists, scientists and photographers who wish to use this forum as an intense, supportive experience to question both intellectually and physically the nature of the medium, the course will result in a concrete body of work to reference and build upon for continued individual experimentation.  Alfonso Borragán has been investigating along edges of photography for the last 15 years. His work can be interpreted as the development and tracking of an irreproducible experience. As a photographer he considers the experience non-transferable. The work uses supports able to decay, organic materials that are liable to change their grammar and mutate the work to new experiences again and again. Hence, he understands photography as a mutable and flexible surface. During this time he has been leading numerous experimental workshops as Light Hunters in Hangar Barcelona, Nomadic Food at Plataforma Bogotá or Expanded Photosensibility at London College of Communication.  1. Check www.alfonsoborragan.com for further information.2. Please contact Alfonso with some images of your work, and to discuss details regarding your experience of photography and suitability for Part 2 of this course. If you are planning to bring in any potentially hazardous materials, please also discuss this first with your tutor.3. Albumen prints were the first commercially exploitable method of producing a photographic print on a paper base from a negative and the dominant form of photographic positives in the mid 19th century. The invention was published in 1847 by Louis Désiré Blanquart-Evrard. This emulsion uses the albumen found in egg whites, salt and silver. 4. Daguerrotype was probably the most prolific photographic process in the 19th. However it was a very expensive and complex process, around 1870 it was replaced by cheaper and reproducible processes. It was invented by Louis Jaques-Mandé Daguerre and introduced worldwide in 1839. Each daguerreotype is a unique positive image on a silvered copper plate mirror-like surface. The daguerreotype is one of the most accurate, detailed and sharp photographic images even produced.  5. Anthotype is probably the first intuitive photographic process. However it was not named and published until 1842 by Sir John Herschel. It produces photographic images by using photosensitive material, as chlorophyll and anthocyanin, from plants. Painting
in Contemporary Practice is run in the Slade School of Fine Art studios. Throughout the
three weeks these spacious studios are used for making individual work and looking
at it together as a group. This process of collective looking and solo making –the twin modes of ‘exhibition’ and ‘studio’–is
the working method deployed by Painting
in Contemporary Practice. These twin modes serve artists by being social, critical and
conversational on the one hand, and practical, individual and contemplative on
the other. We believe this method plays a central role in the development and
understanding of contemporary Painting practice. From day one
and throughout the course, clusters of individual work will be carefully, but provisionally,
placed in the studio space. Through this placement questions will be asked,
both of the individual pieces of work and the function of exhibition: for
example; ‘What is the relationship between the space and the work?’; ‘How can
the internal ideas explored in the studio be drawn out through the
contingencies of placement in an exhibition space?’; or ‘Does the way we
respond in a space to a piece of work change through the way it relates to
another piece?’ Group discussion is essential in this process and will motivate
the re-arrangement of the work in the space. We hope the knowledge gained in these
collective exhibition events will be a fed back into the studio mode and that what
emerged for each individual through the experiences encountered will be
absorbed back into their work. The process of making exhibition
events will highlight problems, openings and avenues to be followed through individually
in the studio. In addition a variety of workshops will target specific aspects that
are important to the development of painting more generally. These could be practical
studio interventions tailored to each individual–for example, an introduction
of different painting surfaces or a shift in scale–or broader ideas to do with
the handling of paint and painting as a process. The aim here is to respond to the
demands of each individual’s work, and enable them to gain further insight into
their own thought patterns and habits.  With these two
modes we aim to open an ongoing space for reflection: discursive and communal
on one hand and meditative and introspective on the other. As tutors we will
make this process as dynamic as possible. We will set the scene for each
individual to identify and draw out the logic within their practise. By working
this through we will support each individual’s development with the aim that something
new is constructed to form a bridge to a contemporary art context.  Below are a selection of testimonials and images from Painting in Contemporary Practice Summer
2015, which we hope will help you decide if this course is suited to you.  Kathleen
Weber"Attending
the Painting in Contemporary Practice
summer course allowed me to challenge my current practice while exploring the
use of exhibition as a tool to deepen my process and drive work rather than
conclude as a final destination. This made significant changes to the way I
approach my practice and as our group integrated into a shared exhibition space
that concurrently served as our studio, we pursued our individual work
alongside our peers and drew upon collective participation to reflect back into
to our own work.  After the course I
was deeply inspired to continue this conversation and in my pursuit to not
feel disconnected by distance and confined by the physical space of a gallery
(or lack thereof), I created a virtual exhibition space called 011 Gallery." Laura
Colantonio"Painting in Contemporary Practice offered to deepen my art practice in
different directions. It opens my mind to consider a wide range
of different tools to support my ideas showing how far and deep I could go with
them. The course reduced kind of fears and
uncertainties in experimenting a personal artistic language and it encouraged
me to evolve daily focusing on relevant details that before I didn't even
consider."Sarah
Gracie"I went on the Painting
in Contemporary Practice course this summer looking for a higher bar than I
was being offered at a local privately run art school. I was looking for
talented and driven students, tuition that would raise my artistic thinking to
another level and good studio space. I would say I got all of that." Farrukh
Akbar"I found the course very helpful and it has directly
contributed to a positive change to my practice. Whilst on the course, which was attended by a wide
range of creative artists from around the world, we were encouraged to try new
processes and methods of working. We were given sanction to experiment,
challenge and reflect on our current practice and strategies. There was
extensive collaboration with other students and ample opportunities for group
crits as well as curating & presenting our work at internal exhibitions. The experience has given me the confidence to pursue
an arts masters degree programme. I am consequently now undertaking the
post-graduate Diploma in Fine Arts course at Chelsea College."  Saturday courses take place in the studios at the Slade Research Centre, Woburn Square. They are taught by 
practising artists, many of whom studied at the Slade and also teach on 
the Slade Summer School. They are designed to enable students to develop
 a set of criteria which will enable further possibilities and 
developments within the wider remit of their own practise after 
completing the course.If you would like to be added to our mailing list, please 
contact sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.This course is aimed at students who are interested in working from their own ideas and preparatory material. It would suit students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. Students will be encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. There will be the option of joining a series of morning workshops that aim to explore strategies used by painters to develop work, or for students to work from their own motivation. The course works essentially as a space for developing ideas and personal practise, led by close tutorial support, as distinct from structured teaching. Slide shows of tutors' work (which represents a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter) and group critiques supplement the studio work. Who should take this course? This course suits students with a broad range of experience, the main criteria being that they come with ideas from which to work. It is also suitable for students who have learnt first principles on the autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting, or for those who have studied elsewhere.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: Sketches, photographs and visual resource material of any kind that will aid discussion about your ideas for new work as well as your personal painting kit.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided.N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Dan PreeceIan RowlandsSandra SmithThis course is designed to extend your core skills in drawing towards composing paintings. It is structured to provide students with a series of practical strategies that help you to translate your own ideas and imagery into painted compositions. We begin with exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at objects and their qualities. These drawings are then translated from tone and line into colour, from one surface and scale to another, enriched by the introduction of secondary sources and composed by organising the pictorial space. Students will learn to extrapolate subject matter from their own preparatory material such as sketches, photographic documentation, objects and text. Who should take this course? This course suits beginners, or those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in Painting, as well as students who have learnt first principles on the Autumn term courses in Drawing or Painting and wish to develop work towards their own ideas.You will need to bring the following materials for the first session: HB and 2B pencils, charcoal, India rubber, Masking tape, Sketchbook (recommended). A mixed set of student brushes including stiff/soft, as well as a ‘drawing’ brush- long and pointed such as a ‘rigger’ no 2, a glass jar with lid, wet wipes for hands, rags or paper towels for brushes, palette knife for mixing. Paints: Ivory black, Titanium white, Light Red and Yellow Ochre yellow ochre. Please note you will need a retarding medium for acrylics in order to stop them drying too quickly when colour mixing.Easels, drawing boards and paper will be provided. N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been confirmed.Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith This course gives students the
opportunity to explore core drawing skills. We will use drawing as a means of
articulating form and as a tool for thinking, to encourage students to explore
and nurture ideas through drawing and as inspiration for their own art
practice. Using the idea of perception as the starting point for visual
enquiry, we will be working almost entirely from observation. The five
sessions will explore light and tone, materials and surface, space and line,
composition, measurement, proportion and drawing systems such as perspective.
Students will also have the opportunity to draw from a life model in the third session. They will
experiment with a variety of techniques and materials including pencil, ink,
white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners, to those who are more experienced, but would like to re-engage
with essential skills in drawing.You will need to bring
the following materials for the first session: Range of pencils 2h –
6b

Erasers (putty and tablet)

1 black or sepia felt or fibre tipped pen

Lightweight A1 portfolio case (optional)

Masking tape

Knife/Pencil sharpener
 Sketchbook (recommended) We will provide
paper, paint, ink, dip sticks, mixing palettes and containers, chalk and willow
charcoal.
 
 N.B. You
will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking has been
confirmed.Course
Tutors Kate HopkinsIan RowlandsSandra Smith  This course offers students the
opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to
look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression
and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the
starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human
figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the
course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of
representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within
the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions
will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning
the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition.
The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can
work with oils or acrylic.  This course suits a cross-section of experiences from
complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to
re-engage with first principles in Painting. We recommend that students have a
rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
course.    You will need to bring the following materials: Masking tape

Paints (oils or acrylics) 

Odourless thinners (for oil paints)

Retarding medium (for acrylic paints)

Brushes

Palette knives

Screw Top Jar

Rags or kitchen roll

Sketchbook (recommended)
  We will provide easels, palettes, primer,
gum strip, oil painting paper, painting mediums, supports (wooden panels,
canvas boards and canvasses) and white spirit.
 
  N.B. You will receive a more detailed materials list once your booking
has been confirmed.   Course Tutors Daniel PreeceIan RowlandsSandra Smith  Short Courses are open to anyone aged
seventeen and over.Slade Short 
Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses 
usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in 
attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you 
to provide the following documents in addition to the application form 
so that we may consider you:To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.  The course fee covers tuition, provision of an
easel, palette and drawing board, where appropriate, and studio space. The course fee does not
include materials except drawing supplies for the first session
of each course.
The fees for the Painting courses include a levy of £15 to cover materials for
supports and grounds and some painting mediums. You must supply all other materials yourself.  Cancellations are permitted up to one month before
the start of a course, subject to a £25 cancellation fee. Refunds will not be
made for cancellations less than one calendar month before the start of a
course. Students who do not attend due to illness, personal or professional
commitments do not have the right to a refund. For this reason we recommend
that students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable
circumstances before the start of their course.  Further course details, a materials list and
map will be sent to you before the course begins.  Short Courses
take place at the Slade Studios, Woburn Square, London, WC1H 0AB. Nearest tubes
are Goodge Street (Northern Line) and Euston (Northern and Victoria Lines). Public transport links can
be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/public-transport.
There are meters and NCP car parks nearby. Please note that we are located
within the Congestion Charge zone.    The building may be difficult for students with
physical disabilities. It is essential
that students with special needs discuss their requirements with the
Administrator before making an application. Access to the building is available
from fifteen minutes prior to the course start time.  Tea and
coffee are provided during the class. UCL
Refectory is open in the evening from 5.00pm – 7.30pm selling hot and cold
meals and snacks and there are many cafes, restaurants and shops nearby.  Short Course students are required
to sign a Safety Compliance Form as part of UCL Health and Safety regulations.
Aerosol fixative sprays and smoking are not permitted in the building. The use
of mobile telephones, radios, personal stereos and kettles is not allowed in
the studios. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave
valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss
of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and
belongings away at the end of the course.   Please contact the Slade on 020 7679 2317 or
email sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk.  The information given above is accurate at the
time of publication. However, the Slade School of Fine Art reserves the right
to cancel or amend courses if circumstances require it.  To apply download the application form and your completed with payment to:Short
Course Administrator, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT Download the application form in Word format. Download the application form in PDF format.Alternatively you can email a scanned completed and signed application form to: sladeshortcourses@ucl.ac.uk. Established in 1985 the Slade Summer School provides a unique opportunity for a wide range of artists and students to work within the studios and vibrant atmosphere of the Slade, a world-renowned school of fine art. All of our courses are taught by practicing artists with an understanding of, and sensitivity to, the different levels of experience and needs of those who enrol. A strong sense of community and enterprise is actively promoted and a lively programme of visiting lecturers, artists in residence and weekly exhibitions run alongside the courses throughout the summer.The Summer School is an exciting environment for students to test their abilities and experiment while learning new skills and different approaches to making art. Studio work is supported by a well-considered series of lectures and seminars that are intended to inspire while enabling students to contextualise their progress and gain first-hand insight into the work of a wide range of artists and academics. Many different one, two and three week course options are available in this brochure including drawing, painting, low tech photography and generative writing as well as our unique ten-week foundation course. We look forward to having you join us to become a part of Slade Summer School 2017.Susan Collins Slade ProfessorDuration: 03 July - 08 September 2017 / 10 weeksFee: £3,450Maximum number of participants: 45Course leaders: Sandra Smith / Max HoldawayRequirements: 18+ yearsThe Slade Summer School Foundation course is an excellent introduction to the study of contemporary art. It sustains and develops students’ abilities and interests over a ten-week period and offers an opportunity for an intense engagement with contemporary Fine Art practice. The course encourages individual creativity whilst imparting a solid grounding in the practical and the aesthetic. Entry is open to students of all levels and experience, and provides an opportunity to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for progression into further or higher education in Fine Art, further independent study and an individual art practice rooted in sound knowledge of current educational pedagogy in Fine Art. The course begins with a structured three-week introduction to Fine Art. In these first three weeks students will meet a range of tutors with whom they will work and be supported by, over the coming weeks. Week one explores the nature of drawing and its fundamental use for the artist. It introduces students to a wide range of drawing processes, providing the opportunity to extend and deepen their understanding of the role of drawing in creative development. These will include drawing based on the manipulation of surface and materials, the body and the senses, performance, language, sound, the experience of architectural space, memory, observation, the diagram, and an introduction to drawing in relation to time-based work (involving scale, rhythm and sequencing). This week places an emphasis on drawing as an imaginative tool for the invention and generation of ideas, and sets an intense pace for the following fortnight.Weeks two and three investigate in more depth the processes of making and the application of ideas. Initially as a group, then individually, students will generate work from supplied and found materials. This project follows the evolution of work from the sculptural to the pictorial and explores many of the stages in between. Ideas from the first week will be extended and translated through and into painting, sculpture, drawing and experimental photography. Students are encouraged to extend their understanding of form and explore the physical, spatial and imaginative qualities of materials. The aim of this introductory period is to develop students’ individual creative approaches, from which they can expect to gain confidence in visual awareness and develop imaginative ambitions for the realisation of their work.By week four students will have some experience of working independently and will have generated a range of ideas and objects, equipping them to develop their own work. From week four to week ten, each student will have a space in the beautiful Slade studios, for individual studio-based enquiry. Emphasis is placed on exploring personal ideas, sustaining open dialogue with their peers and tutors and experimenting with new and traditional techniques. Students are encouraged to work intensively to develop their own vision.Alongside individual research and practice there will be a number of optional specialist workshops taught by invited artists from week four to week eight. These include subjects such as: order in space and experimental geometry workshops in 2D and 3D; video sketch and light projection; performance, and documentation; experimental analogue photography; colour and light: exploring how colour informs our space, perception and imagination; technical research in painting and sculpture: making supports, grounds and mediums for painting, making armatures, casting and working with wax, plaster, latex and clay or other pertinent materials for sculpture; the artist’s book and basic bookbinding; low tech printmaking; contemporary video practice and analogue film. For the first three weeks and for the later workshops, most of the basic materials are provided, however as independent working progresses students will be expected to provide their own materials — a detailed suggested materials list will be provided before the course begins.A rich and diverse extra curricular programme will run for the duration of the Summer school on three evenings of each week, and is open to the foundation course as well as students from across our Summer School programme. The history of art and contextual studies programme includes lectures, gallery visits, artists’ talks and seminars. There is also a vibrant community of Slade student residents (BA, MA and PhD) who are elected to undertake residencies during the summer so that they can discuss ideas and share their experiences with summer school students. An important part of this Foundation course is the regular group and one-to-one tutorials which support student’s progress during the course. Guidance will be provided for students to document their work and record the creative process in preparation for developing their portfolio. The last two weeks are organised around curating, installing and documenting an exhibition of work that culminates in a final critique focusing on each student’s strengths and achievements. The critique is led by a Slade Professor, and is followed by a Private View open to the public for students, their guests, and visitors. Portfolio reviews and feedback interviews are available in the closing stages of the course, providing a platform for discussion centred on future plans.In order to gain maximum benefit from our foundation the course must be taken in full. A certificate of attendance will be awarded, but please do note that this is not an accredited Foundation course. The Slade summer school short course programme provides a variety of courses for all levels of experience. In addition to our extensive evening lecture and exhibition programme, most classes include slide talks and seminars to complement the studio timetable. Many students create an extended programme of study and choose multiple courses to advance their skills and interests.Duration 03 July - 14 July 2017 / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The course introduces and explores the first principles of drawing through group and individual tuition, as well as encouraging students to develop individual vision. The course is tightly structured, and at the start of each day a subject is set to explore a particular aspect of drawing. These include traditional methods of working such as observation of objects, the human form and light; the use of line, measurement, scale, and proportion; materials and surface, the organisation of pictorial space; investigating transcription and translation of existing art works; contemporary ideas about spontaneity, memory, imagination, abstraction and construction, and recording the creative process. In the second week, students are encouraged to explore and nurture ideas through drawing, and encouraged to develop their own art practice and personal vision at their own pace. Students will experiment with a variety of techniques and media including pencil, ink, paint, white chalk, willow and compressed charcoal. At the end of each week a short critique of work will be held along with discussions of future plans at the end of the course.Who should take this course? This course is suitable for beginners, or those who have some practical drawing experience and want to develop more confidence in their practice.Duration Every Wednesday 05 July – 23 August / 8 weeksWednesday 6.00pm - 8.30pmFee £325 Maximum number of participants 16Course leaders Various tutorsRequirements 18 years+This course offers students the opportunity to explore the first principles of painting. The emphasis is to look at painting as a means for articulating form and as a tool for expression and creative imagination. The course explores the idea of perception as the starting point for visual enquiry and includes working from objects, the human figure, memory and secondary sources. It is our aim that students leave the course with a set of criteria helping them not only to explore ways of representing perceived objects but also allowing further possibilities within the wider remit of painting to be questioned in their own time. Weekly sessions will be devoted to contemplating a particular set of formal issues underpinning the nature of painting. Special attention is placed on colour and composition. The course includes two sessions of painting from a life model. Students can work with oils or acrylic.Who should take this course? This course suits a cross-section of experiences from complete beginners to those who are more experienced but would like to re-engage with first principles in painting. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing in order to obtain maximum benefit from the course. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Liz RidealRequirements 18 years+This masterclass, taught by Liz Rideal, is for students who want to think, learn and practise drawing in public and private spaces, from example and imagination. We will study fine art in gallery and museum collections and use this as inspiration in order to create individual artworks. Paintings will be interpreted through graphic means – smudged pencil, coloured pastel, biro, ink and wash.The course will concentrate on looking through drawing, focussing on works of art, museum objects and their environments. Students will use these stimuli to form a collection of their own drawings that, when repurposed in the Slade studios, will make up a unique more complex work. Mornings will be spent in a different gallery every day and afternoons at the Slade. Each day will be themed differently so that a variety of subjects and compositional aspects relating to the larger studio work will be addressed. Venues include:The National Gallery, The National Portrait Gallery, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Wallace Collection, The British Museum. We do not intend to replicate seen artworks but use the seen to invent our own. The purpose is to gather material, use it freely, expand the mind in thought, discussion and action, to experience a prolonged artistic adventure the results of which might only become clear to the individual in the future.Who should take this course? Someone with an open mind who values looking at other artists’ work and is prepared to relax their familiar working method in order to test out new ways of making art. (Students will be responsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of an Oyster card is recommended).Duration 10 July – 14 July / 17 July – 21 July / 1 or 2 weeksFee £390Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Penny BrewillRequirements 18 years+Penny Brewill teaches our masterclass in etching, suitable for students of all levels, which offers an intensive introduction to the methods and materials involved in the traditional and non-toxic techniques of etching and will begin with an opportunity to examine examples of original prints by different artists. This will be followed by a thorough introduction to the basic etching processes – hard and soft ground, dry point, aquatint and sugar lift. Students are encouraged to explore the various processes fully in order to develop their own personal language, and are encouraged to bring examples of past work. There will be plenty of time for one-to-one tutorials throughout the week as students work develops and progresses.Students will be encouraged and guided in translating their drawings and ideas directly on to the plate.Included in the course fee is a levy that covers most of the materials necessary for etching, however please note that copper and paper are not provided and will be available to purchase during the course. Due to the structure and nature of the course, etching can be taken for one or two weeks.Who should take this course? Etching will suit anyone at any level who wishes to extend their drawing practice into the medium of printmaking. Students will develop etching plate making skills through line, tone, and mark making techniques, and experiment with various inking and printing methods to produce beautiful rich finished prints.Students who would like to develop their practice in etching further could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Duration 10 July – 14 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This one-week introductory course teaches experimental photographic techniques and mediums from their inception, with a view to use them for creative exploration. We will use historic photographic technologies to encourage new procedures and ideas that reach beyond the techniques and traditional understanding of photography.  The emphasis of this course is to understand photography not only as a medium to represent, but also as a technology to trigger imagination. At its origins, photography was a technique capable of creating images from light, without the use of what we consider today as a 'conventional' camera. We will create alternative optical devices from scratch and experiment in both practical and imaginative ways with these fundamental technologies. This will allow us to investigate the creative potential of photography: from camera-less techniques to the creation of photosensitive surfaces. The workshop is a collective ‘kitchen’ in which to expand the horizons of photo technologies to create a new ‘table’ for its understanding. The course will cover: Darkroom techniques: basic processes and experimental processes/ Creation of photographic devices/ Photograms, chemigrams and lumigrams/ Salt prints, cyanotypes, dichromate gum prints, anthotypes (chlorophile) and photo emulsions.Who should take this course? This workshop is designed for those with a curiosity to learn and experiment with old photographic mediums and darkroom processes. It is open to beginners and experienced photographers alike, as well as artists. No previous experience of Photography is needed.Duration 17 July – 21 July / 1 weekFee £390Maximum number of participants 14Course leader(s) Alfonso BorragánRequirements 18 years+This week offers an exciting opportunity to work with photography in an experimental and imaginative way. It aims to generate a platform to support and develop your personal projects and ideas. The workshop will function as a laboratory: a collective research space for the exchange of ideas and intuitions around the limits of photography, with extensive time in the dark room producing new work. The practical working will generate questions and conversation around topics, including: Light and matter / Beyond photons/ Evolution of technologies and its impact on photography/Technologies as an extension of our body/ The expanded field of Photography/ Forgotten tools and neglected processes / How can we reinvent and rethink our idea of photography?At the beginning of the week you will be introduced to the facilities and discuss ideas, materials and working methods. This will be followed by practical sessions experimenting with historic photographic technologies and darkroom processes, viewed from a contemporary perspective. Practical work will be supported by tutorials, slide talks and seminars to help visualize materials and generate discussion. This workshop provides a creative space for experimentation, that pretends to cook a ‘banquet’ from an empty 'larder', to extend personal practice and photographic techniques.Who should take this course? This course is designed as an extension to Part 1 - The Kitchen and the Table as well as a standalone course for those with the experience and aptitude to explore experimental photography. Students who might be interested in photographic processes could progress to the Photo Etching course the following week. Further information about this course can be found on our Low-Tech Photography information page.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+This course acts as a bridge for students who wish to extend their experience of drawing and consider how it might be developed into painting, whilst contemplating how these two disciplines cross over and inform one another. During week one the course begins by exploring some of the formal issues of drawing through observation, looking carefully at tone and mark-making. These drawings will then be translated into paintings via tone and temperature and through the use of colour. Special emphasis is put on the translation of tone and line into colour, the role of colour in both painting and drawing, and the ways in which it can be manipulated. In the second week we explore composition and paint handling, i.e. the organisation of pictorial space and how colour and surface are changed by the quality of paint and the tools used, as well as strategies to generate and develop personal ideas in painting. Students will use a variety of materials including pencil, charcoal, emulsion paint, ink and acrylic or oil. Each student’s personal development will be encouraged through the taught studio sessions, informal discussions, slide talks and regular critiques to discuss ideas and methods.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for students with experience of drawing and an interest in developing their drawings into paintings by learning some of the first principles of painting.Duration 17 July – 28 July / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is designed to introduce you to a range of contemporary approaches to composing a portrait painting. Students will be encouraged to  explore alternative approaches and ideas about portraiture while keeping alive a discourse with, and experience of, a solid formal visual language connected to the more traditional understanding of the genre. The course considers a range of contemporary artists and asks questions of their procedures and approaches. The structure and content of the course aims to encourage you to evolve your own independent practice and discover new processes in order to generate work with the support and encouragement of your tutors. Initially you will be drawing directly from the head, and through a sequence of studies, developing a solid formal basis and increasing your perceptual awareness. This formal phase will lead into workshops led by invited practicing artists representing current and diverse approaches to portraiture, with whom you will experience processes that have inspired and informed their own practices. As part of the course there will be regular slide talks and discussions to give a wider context to the work made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students wishing to extend their language and practice, and is suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 17-28 July / 31 July – 11 August / 2 or 4 weeksFee £730 / £1,460 Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) include  Daniel Preece / Virginia Verran Requirements 18 years+This course is aimed at people who are interested in developing their own ideas and preparatory material with support and guidance. Students are encouraged to develop their own practical and aesthetic interests by setting up an individual studio-based enquiry from the first day. This will be supported by a series of optional morning workshops which include working from secondary sources such as paintings and drawings; mixing and applying colour; discussing supports and grounds; methods demonstrations and learning some of the essentials of the painter’s craft. A life model can be booked on selected days to generate source material (please note that the life model will usually change day-to-day). There will be individual tutorials, slide shows of tutors’ work and group critiques. The tutors represent a wide spectrum of professional practice in terms of style and subject matter. This course may be followed for two or four weeks as appropriate; whilst the optional workshops will in some cases repeat over the four weeks, students find this sustained period of tutor support and individual enquiry highly beneficial.Who should take this course?It is open to people with varying levels of experience, from beginners to painters with an independent practice. One-to-one tuition is tailored to the individual. We recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing and prepare some sketchbook work before joining the class in order to gain maximum benefit from the course.Duration 24 July – 28 July / 1 weekFee £370Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Laura EmsleyRequirements 18 years+The aim of this programme is to provide a portal through which to explore contemporary art in an expansive and enjoyable way. The week will consist of gallery visits, lectures and discussions. These will be augmented by tutor-led practical sessions in the studio, experimenting with various materials and methods. We will be asking questions such as what do we mean by ‘contemporaryart’? Is it different from, and how does it relate to modern art and post-modernism?To begin with, we will look at key changes from the Renaissance to Modernism, inparticular the move from perspective and illusionism into abstraction and the readymade. How did this then lead into postmodernism? Socio/political, historical and technological developments will also be broadly traced and we will consider how all of this feeds into art now. Some of the main shifts in theoretical thinking will betouched on.There will be a particular focus on London as a centre for contemporary art, from thelate eighties to the present and we will visit major London galleries such as TateModern as well as commercial and more alternative venues. Who should take this course?The course is suitable for those with little or no prior knowledge, as well as thosewishing to widen their existing experience. There are a number of gallery visits whichentail travelling on public transport and some walking. (Students will beresponsible for their travel and food costs on these trips and the purchase of anOyster card is recommended).Duration 24 July – 04 August / 2 weeksFee £770Maximum number of participants 12Course leader(s) Lesley SharpeRequirements 18 years+Traditional copper plate photogravure is recognised as a printmaking medium that produces beautiful, rich prints prized for their unique tonalities, textures, and depth. In recent years printmakers have been working with alternative photo reproduction processes to achieve similar results, mainly that of photo etching and photo polymer gravure. Both techniques are relatively easy methods of creating intaglio prints from both photographic and autographic imagery and in many ways yield similar results to the labour intensive and historically renowned photogravure process in just a fraction of the time. You will explore a variety of image manipulation techniques to produce digital positives suitable for the photo etching and photo polymer process learning the unique differences between the two processes.Participants must bring ideas and a variety of imagery from digital or analogue sources.The course will include: Week 1Scanning / Digital Workspace / The Positive: Photographic and autographic / The Copper Plate: Expose and Etch.Week 2The Polymer Plate: Expose and Etch/ Printing techniques/ Multi plate printing.Who should take this course? The course is suitable for those with experience of printmaking and/or photography. Platemaking experience is desirable.This course will also extend techniques learned during Etching 1 and 2 on the Slade Summer School.Duration 31 July– 11 August / 2 weeks Fee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+For many artists, working from the human figure is an exciting and profoundly rewarding experience, and one that the Slade continues to actively participate in. This two-week course offers an introduction to the ‘first principles’ in drawing directly from the life model, with distinct daily activities, and exploring a variety of means by which to express and record. Students will be guided through a carefully structured series of studies with formal themes and activities designed to enable and expand visual understanding and language. The course will be tightly structured throughout, examining how we look and exploring ways in which information might be translated. It will explore the many and varied results thrown up by intense analytical enquiry, alongside use and experimentation with a broad range of drawing materials. Students will receive tuition in perceptually based methods of pictorial construction, introducing and employing a range of artists’ strategies, in linear and tonal study, and touching on ideas concerning colour- articulation of colour-space, colour and expression, as well as technical advice on, and practice with a variety of drawing materials, both wet and dry. You will be taught by figurative artists, each of whom will offer their fresh eye and alternative perspectives. Study throughout will be accompanied by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques in order to provide a wider context to work being made in the studio.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels.Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1,080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Hephzibah Rendle-ShortRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioPainting in Contemporary Practice is devised as a collective enterprise for studio-based artists. The studio will be used as a dynamic space for group interaction around the individual’s practice. Workshops will introduce a variety of practise strategies, for example, colour and the monochrome, the task of editing, how to forget, how to start. Open-ended experimentation will be encouraged, exploring, for example, paint’s material and optical qualities. It is hoped that such input will produce unexpected artistic experiences.From day one exhibition-as-method will be used to search out the internal logic within each individual’s practice and to formulate questions through painting: a process that will manoeuver each student into a different position in relation to their work. As part of the course there will be an opportunity to present within a group exhibition.Who should take this course?This course will suit a person who has an understanding of painting in a fine art context. It will suit individuals who can bring something of their established artistic practice to the collaboration to ask questions of painting in a contemporary context.  This is a three-week course with a two-week option. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on Painting in Contemporary Practice page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk Duration 31 July – 11 August or 18 August / 2 or 3 weeksFee £730 / £1080Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Jim HobbsRequirements 18 years+ and by portfolioThis is an advanced, intensive studio-based programme which utilizes the studio as a type of laboratory to explore the potentiality of drawing and its application across all media. The optional extension of the course into three weeks allows artists the time to fully develop and test their work, and will culminate in a final exhibition.The course aims to open up the question of what constitutes a drawing and how contemporary drawing functions as its own discipline, including investigating the cognitive act of drawing (drawing as a means of thinking), alternative methods for recording/observing, the use of paper as a physical drawing material, as well as moving beyond and off the page. Students may experiment with a variety of mediums and techniques, from more traditional drawing materials to newer media, (projectors, audio/visual equipment, computers, sculpture tools) with the opportunity to expand their work into other areas of interest.The course prioritises giving independent working time in the studio to develop personal work. This is supplemented with tutor led projects, one to one tutorials, group discussions/crits, gallery visits, short technical workshops, lectures, and visiting artists’ talks. Who should take this course? This course is designed for students from a wide range of creative disciplines who have experience of drawing and are interested in experimenting and extending their skills and knowledge. More detailed information about the content and structure to decide if this course is right for you is available on The Expanded Field of Drawing page.The Slade asks for a portfolio submission in order to ascertain the compatibility of this course to the student. Please email 5 images (each not more than 1MB) of your work, as well as a few sentences on why you would like to take the course: sladesummer@ucl.ac.ukDuration 14 August – 25 August/ 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Donal MoloneyRequirements 18 years+Who should take this course? This painting course is suitable for students with some previous experience wishing to develop their practice in innovative ways.The focus is to open up sources of inspiration from within landscape painting and expand how they can be used as forms of expression within the studio. By building on the techniques of the old masters, while absorbing modern approaches and ideas about landscape painting, this course will help you to develop your own personal and poetic perspective in relation to the genre.In week one, students will investigate methods of ‘bringing the outside into the studio’ using a range of approaches to transforming primary and secondary source material in intriguing ways. By embracing risk taking and contemporary approaches to painting, students will learn how to translate and manipulate their view of the landscape through paint. Each morning’s workshop, slide show and specialist lecture will be used to develop and expand particular skills, both imaginative and technical, in relation to landscape painting.In week two, students will explore ways in which landscape painting can absorb other media and approaches such as collage, abstraction, narrative and photography. This week will culminate in a personal exploration of how to create curious combinations of techniques, from the mechanised and procedural to the more gestural and handmade, within painting. Students will explore what landscape painting was, is and can be in relation to contemporary painting.Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Ian RowlandsRequirements 18 years+The life room is a fertile environment for exploring the formal issues related to making paintings. Although, seemingly, a very particular and singular undertaking, the questions raised when working directly from the unclothed figure in a space, relate to, and provide answers in the broader sphere of painting.We have structured this course to provide the space and conditions in which to explore the formal challenges related to painting, such as drawing, composition, tone and temperature. Through personal enquiry and experiment the more individual elements such as mark making and language, as well as colour, through the use of restricted and extended palettes, can be explored and nurtured. During the first week, poses will be held for a maximum of one day to offer a diversity of experiences. The culmination of these experiences will be put to use in a sustained pose during week two to allow scope for students' own investigations. Technical support will be available for those students who wish to construct canvases and whilst we encourage the use of oil paint, other media may be used. Throughout the fortnight there will be ample opportunity for discussion in one-to-one tutorials with a variety of visiting tutors with their own distinct artist practices, as well as within informal group situations, and in slide talks. We will conclude the course with a group critique during the afternoon of the final Friday.Who should take this course? This course is open to students of all levels from beginners to more experienced painters (although we do recommend that students have a rudimentary knowledge of drawing). Duration 14 August – 25 August / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 18Course leader(s) Malina BuschRequirements 18 years+The aim of this course is to expand ideas around representation and abstraction through a hands-on exploration of historic and contemporary material processes. During the course you will learn about the changing role of abstraction in contemporary practice, its processes, and its relationship to figuration. We will also examine historical art movements and concepts as we explore our relationship to looking at different kinds of pictorial space.  In week one, we will investigate painting through the properties and possibilities of traditional and modern media, grounds, supports and pigments. Each day’s activities will include a demonstration, slide talk, or gallery visit where you will be guided through a range of practical techniques and approaches to composition, form, and space making systems. Through a series of playful and flexible projects, you will gain experience with an array of experimental methods and learn to apply this knowledge to the studio. In week two, you will build upon these experiences to develop your own ideas and responses through a personal project. Throughout the course you will receive regular individual tutorial support, alongside feedback from visiting artists and your fellow students.   Who should take this course? This course is designed for students of all abilities who would like to develop the abstract qualities within their creative practice through experimentation with painting and mixed media techniques.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader Caroline de LannoyRequirements 18 years+ Colour is a fundamental phenomenon in culture and a major element in the practice of artists. To understand the many aspects of colour, this course explores the subject through lectures and seminars, practice and critiques. It interweaves aspects of colour science with colour practice to equip students with an in-depth knowledge of colour theory and its practical application. It aims to inform students’ creative decision-making and increase their ability to realise the power of colour in their own work. Through a series of morning lectures we will examine the physics and chemistry of colour, the history of colour in art, the role of our culture and language in colour concepts, and the psychology and emotion of colour. The practical element of the course will follow the lectures and will involve various projects to tackle such issues as the interaction of colour, colour mixing, the relationship between form and colour, and the spatial effects of colours. There will be workshops with invited fine artists for whom colour plays a key role in their work. During the second week students will have time to develop their personal work in relation to their colour research, with individual tutorial support. This work might either be generated from ideas arising from the lectures and practical exercises in the early part of the course, or arise from issues pertinent to students’ own practice. The emphasis will be on the development of ideas, preparation and process, using a variety of approaches and techniques. Who should take this course? The course is open to students at all levels who are interested in developing their skills in relation to colour and their own practice. Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Kate HopkinsRequirements 18 years+This course is intended to develop students’ ability to represent the human head. It provides an opportunity to build a body of work around a single subject. The emphasis of the course is on developing drawing and painting skills through a practical approach to the study of portraiture. Working directly from the head/model/person, the basis of this study will initially be founded in drawing, focusing on investigative and analytical studies including linear drawing and measurement, as well as tonal studies. These will evolve into approaches with increased expressive potential, and, moving into colour, its interaction and relativity, and its role in the articulation of space and form. This will include looking at restricted colour palettes, scale, composition and cropping. These structured, developmental studies, together with an exploration and the preparation of supports and materials will lead into a final three days of sustained painting where the previous ideas covered can be called upon as needed.Activities throughout will be supported by individual tuition, informal discussion, slide talks and group critiques delivered by visiting figurative artists, each of whom will provide a range of perspectives. The course will conclude with a final group critique during which time students work throughout the two weeks will be discussed.Who should take this course? Suitable for all levels of experience.Duration 28 August – 08 September / 2 weeksFee £730Maximum number of participants 16Course leader(s) Andy PankhurstRequirements 18 years+This Life Painting course is specifically designed for students who wish to work directly from a sustained life model pose for the rare duration of two weeks and offers an opportunity to participate in a stimulating dialogue about the nature of sustained observation and concepts connected to it.The course will begin with a collaborative studio arrangement through a creative process which sets the model poses and colour environments as a group, including participants working spaces. These poses will be fixed and sustained for the full two weeks. Conversation and one to one tuition will be offered on issues specific to the experience of a sustained visual exchange: perceptual shifts taking place between the artist & subject, colour mixing, tone & temperature, form and the role of structure in terms of proportion and spatial relationships.The course will encourage personal development and experimentation, as well as providing a lively space for further exploration and definition of the genre. Studio time working from the model will be interspersed with discussions, slide talks, workshops and invited speakers, as a catalyst to exchange, discover, and articulate ideas which inform and unfold from this particular activity. Perceptual issues will be considered and contextualized in relation to recent developments in the neuroscience of vision- ideas about optics in relation to illusion and the imagination. The practice of ‘painting from appearances’ and the various strategies employed by artists working in this way will be explored to enrich the experience of making a sustained painting from the life model.   Who should take this course? This course is appropriate for students who have some experience in drawing and painting. The course complements ‘Life Drawing’ or ‘Life Painting’ and offers the opportunity to either focus on one painting or as many as you wish. This optional programme is open to all students taking part in our various courses throughout the summer. It aims to enrich students learning experiences and to encourage Summer School students to meet and work with colleagues on different courses, as well as with Slade students and alumni. It is extensive and eclectic, and gives a real sense of studying in an art school environment.There will be a lively series of artists’ projects hosted in the studios, run by a mix of Slade tutors, alumni and recently graduated student residents. These artists will open their studio spaces to Summer School students and invite discussion centred around the work.Mid week evenings host a regular series of extra curricular events at 5pm, Tuesday to Thursday.Tuesday and Thursday: A combination of Art History lectures and artist talks run on these evenings, providing an introduction to the varied contexts and histories of fine art.Wednesday: Exhibition openings and floor talks are hosted bi-weekly on Wednesday evenings in our exhibiting space. The exhibition programme provides an opportunity for students to respond to art immediately and directly with a broad range of mediums and artists. Slade Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, both current and recently graduated, talk about their work on alternate Wednesday evenings.  Alfonso Borragán / Penny Brewill / Clare Bryan / Adam Burge / Malina Busch / Nick Cope / Rose Davey / Caroline de Lannoy / Laura Emsley / Jamie George / Maria Glyka / Bea Haut  / Jim Hobbs / Max Holdaway / Kate Hopkins / Donal Moloney / Andy Pankhurst / Lisa Peachey / Eve Peasnell / Dan Preece / Hephzibah Rendle-Short / Liz Rideal / Ian Rowlands / Luuk Schroder / Lesley Sharpe / Sandra Smith / Gary Stevens / Milly Thompson / Virginia Verran / Patrick White / Emma Wood  Please note: Summer School courses are not accredited. If you have attended one of our short courses and would like to reference this on your CV, please state “Slade Summer School” or “Slade Short Courses” as appropriate. Please complete our application form. Once complete you can either scan and email to sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk or post to the address specified on the form. Slade Short Courses are designed for adults and the students attending our courses usually span a wide range of ages. For those students interested in attending a short course who are below the age of 18 (17+), we ask you to provide the following documents in addition to the application form so that we may consider you: We do not recommend that students who are under 18 take the following courses: We welcome applications from people of all levels of experience, except where indicated in the course information. Some courses are physically demanding so please contact the Slade before making your booking if you have any health problems or special needs. You may enrol for as many courses as you wish, within the following regulations:  Students are advised to reserve their chosen course as soon as possible as places are strictly limited. Places are secured on a first-come basis on receipt of appropriate payment unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information above. All students are expected to abide by the UCL Code of Behaviour which can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/srs/academic-manual/c9/requirements/#11. We ask that you treat staff and any property belonging to staff, other students, or the School and College with due respect, care and consideration. Refunds are only available on cancellations made in writing at least one month before the course start date and are subject to a £25 administrative charge. Refunds can not be made under any circumstances less than one month before the start of a course. Students who do not attend or withdraw from a course due to illness, personal or professional commitments, do not have the right to refunds or transfers. We strongly recommend that all students take out personal insurance against any unforeseeable circumstances. Attendance certificates can be provided upon request once the course has been completed. These can only be supplied in the year of attendance and cannot be retrospectively produced. Please note that unless otherwise stated in the relevant course information, materials are not included in the short course fees and will not be provided. Materials lists will be provided to all students around one month before the course start date. Working with the unclothed life model is mandatory in the following courses: Life Drawing and Painting, Life Painting, and Life Painting and Life Painting: Perception and the Sustained Pose. 












 All courses are practical and studio-based. The courses run from 9.30 am - 4.30 pm, followed by an optional evening programme on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays at 5.00 pm, which normally lasts an hour. Studio access is from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm for the first two weeks and thereafter from 8.30 am - 5.00 pm on Mondays and Fridays and 8.30 am - 7.00 pm on Tuesdays to Thursdays. The August Bank Holiday is a normal working day at the Summer School, however many UCL facilities will be closed on that day. We advise you to bring a packed lunch, but tea and coffee will be provided. The Slade is well-served by public transport and details can be found at www.ucl.ac.uk/maps//public-transport. Parking places are not available at UCL (although special arrangements can sometimes be made in advance for students with disabilities). There are meters parking nearby and bicycle racks in the UCL quad. Please note that we are located within the Congestion Charge zone. The Slade School of Fine Art welcomes applications from disabled students. It is essential that students with any special needs discuss their requirements with the Administrator before making a formal application. Summer School students are required to attend a Safety Induction at the beginning of their studies. Students will be expected to follow guidance on studio use as briefed. Students are provided with their own locker for storage of art materials. Padlocks can be purchased for £1.00 when you enrol. Alternatively you can bring your own padlock with a shackle size of around 5 mm. Please take care of your belongings at all times and never leave valuables unattended. We regret that we cannot be held responsible for the loss of students' belongings. Students must make sure that they take all work and belongings away at the end of the course. UCL Residences offers accommodation during the summer. For details see, www.ucl.ac.uk/residences. The Slade cannot book accommodation on behalf of students. All accommodation costs must be met by the student. Overseas students are advised to take out private health insurance. All students whose first language is not English should have a reasonable proficiency in the English language in order to fully benefit from the courses. For further details of any of the courses, please contact the Slade Summer School, Slade School of Fine Art, UCL, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, telephone +44 (020) 7679 2313/2317, email sladesummer@ucl.ac.uk The information given in this brochure is accurate at the time of publication, however, the Slade Summer School reserves the right to cancel or amend the described courses as circumstances dictate. Complete the form indicating your choice of course/s with a tick and either scan/email or post with your course fee to:Slade Summer SchoolSlade School of Fine ArtUCL, Gower StreetLondon, WC1E 6BTsladesummer@ucl.ac.uk