				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				We offer a BA in Hebrew and Jewish Studies, an MA in Jewish
Studies, as well as a wide range of joint degrees with other 
departments in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, including a BA in 
Ancient Languages, BA in History (Central and East European) and Jewish 
Studies, and a range of degrees in Hebrew and modern languages.  Most of
 our programmes include a Year Abroad option, usually taken in Israel.Our
 programmes are well structured and offer a broad selection of modules 
that enable students to develop their interests and research potential. 
 The study of Hebrew is an essential component of our degree programmes,
 and many other languages, not least Yiddish, are also taught.Our
 academic staff are talented teachers and world leaders in their fields 
of research.  We welcome students of all ages, ethnicity and religion.  
We are a friendly and inspiring department, thriving on collaboration 
and a global, highly diverse staff and student body.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				  We send our twice-yearly
Departmental Newsletter to all Hebrew & Jewish Studies alumni, either by post or by email. If you
would like to contribute to an edition, please email your article, together
with your name and years of study, to jewish.studies@ucl.ac.uk.
   We also invite alumni to departmental events during the academic year.    If you would like to hear about events run by the Institute of Jewish Studies,
contact ijs@ucl.ac.uk to be added to their
emailing list. We want to
 make sure that our students have the best possible educational 
experience and are eager to maintain and enhance our reputation for 
research excellence.   We have expert staff delivering world-leading 
teaching and conducting cutting edge research, but they need to have the
 best resources available to them.   You can help to provide this by making a gift to your department. Your 
generosity will provide us with a source of income which can be used to 
respond to needs and opportunities as and when they arise. 
 From 
supporting student scholarships to investing in new facilities, 100% of 
your gift will be directed to areas of the greatest importance within 
the department.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				Our graduates have gone on to careers in
primary, secondary and higher education, the Bar, the City, the Civil
Service, NGO activity, electronic and print media, the clergy (Jewish and
non-Jewish), diplomacy, film-making, and much more.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				 For information on syllabi and bibliographies:  Search ReadingLists@UCL for the course code
or title. Please submit the following two forms together with payment (see details below): Payment is made by cheque only (made payable to UCL).The academic year is divided into three terms, with two reading weeks. Teaching takes place only in first and second term. College Reading Weeks are the weeks beginning Monday 6 November 2017, and Monday 12 February 2018. In accordance with departmental policy on Jewish holidays, no teaching will take place. Missed classes will be made up during Reading Week or as arranged by individual lecturers. Please consult your course lecturer.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies 
is located on the third floor of Foster Court. The Departmental Office 
is in room 318, third floor, Foster Court.  All classes are taught on the UCL campus (see UCL maps). Check the timetable for class locations. Note that these are subject to change at short notice due to circumstances beyond
 our control. The nearest tube stations are Goodge Street (Northern Line), 
Warren Street (Northern and Victoria Lines), Euston Square (Hammersmith 
& City, Circle and Metropolitan Lines), and Euston (Northern and 
Victoria Lines). There is a lift in Foster Court. 
However, other UCL buildings may be difficult for students with physical
 disabilities. Before making an applications, CE students are advised to
 contact the Departmental Office. This information will be treated in 
confidence and is only requested in order that UCL may offer advice on 
the facilities that are available for students with disabilities. To
 book a place, complete and return the application form and the UCL 
Visitor Registration Form. Your details will be added to the UCL system 
and you will be eligible for a UCL Visitor ID card. The standard fee is £650 per course
 unit (i.e. a course which ordinarily meets for two hours a week over 
two terms). The cost of a half course unit is £325. Should you wish to 
pay in two instalments, please indicate this on your application form. 
For this fee, CE students are entitled to sit in the class, receive all 
course materials and handouts.If you would like to sit the termly/end 
of year examinations and/or submit coursework/essays, please discuss 
this with the relevant lecturer at the first class. CE students can 
access the UCL library for reference use. (The fee does not include 
borrowing privileges.) CE students are also entitled to a computer 
account for the duration of the course. Once registered, CE students 
will be sent details of their account. 





  
 You will need to return the 
application form and visitor's form along with a cheque made payable to 
UCL to the Departmental office. Please note that credit card payments 
are not accepted. ConcessionsA reduced fee of £600 (both terms) and £300 (one term) is available to seniors (60+) or those with reduced circumstances (supporting documentation will be needed).  For further information, contact the HJS Departmental Office: Phone: 020 7679 7171Email: jewish.studies [at] ucl.ac.uk  The information above is accurate at the time of 
publication. However, UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies 
reserves the right to cancel or amend courses and refuse 
admission at any time.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				*Do ensure you are enrolled in the Moodle course page. There you will submit your essays via TurnitinBA Final Year Dissertation BA Final Year Dissertation FAQ (Word)BA Final Year Dissertation Form (Word)Submissions due:Dissertation Form: Friday 4 November, 2016Dissertation: Tuesday 2 May, 2017MA DissertationMA Dissertation Form (Word) - The completed and signed form to be submitted to the departmental office by the deadline outlined on the form and below.Submission due: MA Dissertation Form: Monday 06 February, 2017Dissertation: Monday 11 September, 2017The dissertation is to be 12,000 words and must comply to Departmental Style Guidelines.GeneralTimetable & Maps
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
 

   How to Apply

 
Here is a selection of course options we offer! For more information please see a list of courses running in 2017-18 and detailed course descriptions.
 

   How to Apply

 

				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
 

   How to Apply

 
Here is a selection of course options we offer!
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				  The MPhil and PhD are research degrees for candidates with a suitable
academic background who wish to pursue independent research under the
supervision of a specialist in the field. 
 The department admits candidates only if there is a member of staff who
can provide the requisite supervision and assistance. In the first
instance, potential applicant should consult with the Graduate  
Tutor. PhD study is three years full-time or five years part-time. Candidates are expected to carry out an independent research
project, based in part on primary source material. MPhil candidates
ordinarily submit their qualifying work in the form of a thesis of
approximately 80,000 - 100,000 words in length.The PhD dissertation should be based substantially
on primary source material and must make a substantial and original
contribution to the candidate's area of study. We are a multi-disciplinary department with expertise across the 
whole field of Jewish studies, ranging from history (ancient to modern) 
and political science to language (all phases of Hebrew, several other 
Semitic languages and Yiddish), literature, and gender issues.
Research activities in the department include: A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor’s degree in 
an arts or social science subject from a UK university or an overseas 
qualification of an equivalent standard, and a demonstrated knowledge of
 Hebrew or Yiddish, or another language appropriate to the research 
proposal. English level expected: Good  Applicants are accepted in the first instance for the MPhil degree
only. The Graduate  Tutor, in consultation with the
candidate's thesis Supervisor, will decide when and whether or not to
convert the registration to the PhD category.   Applicants should have an arts or social science degree with at least
upper second-class Honours from a UK university (or an equivalent overseas
qualification), and a demonstrated knowledge of Hebrew or Yiddish, or
another appropriate language.Candidates for research degree may begin
their programme at the beginning of either of the two teaching terms (i.e.
September/October or January). Prior to applying for a research degree,
candidates should consult with the Graduate  
Tutor, who will
advise them on the availability of research supervision within the
department. Three Wolfson Postgraduate Scholarships in the 
Humanities will be available for PhD students starting in 2014 in the 
area of literature, language and historyFor research students in their final year of study in the 
Department of Hebrew & Jewish Studies. This award is based on 
academic merit. There is no application procedure; all eligible students
 will be automatically considered by the Department of Hebrew & 
Jewish Studies.For students of the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa who 
wish to apply to UCL as an affiliate student for a graduate research 
programme in any Department of the Faculty of Arts & Humanities. 
Students must contact authorities of the Scuola Normale Superiore di 
Pisa in order to be nominated. This scholarship is based on academic 
merit.  This award was founded in 1989 to commemorate the work of 
Arnaldo Momigliano, KBE, FBA, Professor of Ancient History at UCL 
(1951-75) by his daughter, Professor Laura Lepschy.Full details of funding opportunities can be found on the UCL Scholarships website Our graduates find a wide range of career paths open 
to them and consequently can be found in most industries in the UK and 
overseas.The department has a strong culture of collaborative 
research and brings together researchers (whether staff or students) 
from across UCL as well as other institutions and organisations. Crucial
 to this are our research groups and centres, which provide a focus for 
our research activity, including doctoral students, post-docs and staff 
with specific research interests. Most doctoral students are attached to
 one (or more) of these groups and will be encouraged to get involved in
 the research seminars, visiting speakers, annual lectures, visits and 
other activities which these centres organise regularly. The centres 
also facilitate online interaction through blogs and Twitter feeds.In recent years, several students who have graduated from our research 
programmes have embarked on careers in academia. Others have taken jobs 
in journalism, for the United Nations, with non-governmental 
organisations, international think-tanks in Brussels and London, and in 
the diplomatic service.  Under exceptional circumstances, members of the UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies can direct the research projects (towards either
the MPhil or PhD programmes) of students who are not resident in the United
Kingdom. This is called the
"Non-Resident Programme" (NRP).   To enroll in the NRP, candidates must satisfy a number of
criteria:
Prospective candidates should ensure that they meet all of the above
qualifications for this degree, because no exceptions can be made to the
regulations.If they wish to
explore the possibility of NRP status, they should contact the Graduate Tutor at jewish.studies@ucl.ac.uk using the Subject Line: "Graduate
Tutor - NRP" The Graduate Tutor will decide if the applicant meets the
requirements and will put them in touch with a prospective
supervisor. 
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				  We are a small, friendly and extremely
ambitious department at UCL teaching every aspect of Jewish culture to every
type of student. The department of Hebrew & Jewish Studies goes back to the very
foundations of UCL, as Sir Isaac Lyon Goldsmid (1778-1859), one of the
leading figures in the struggle for Jewish emancipation in England, was among
the principal founders of UCL and the chief promoter of its Hebrew department.   Today, the department’s range of
Jewish Studies courses is the widest anywhere in Europe. With offerings in
language and literature, history, politics, religious and gender studies, it is
no surprise that many students (even those who are registered in another
department) choose to take a class with us.
Our strongest appeal is the chance
for study abroad students to work in an intimate setting with leading scholars
in diverse areas of the field.  If you are looking to enrol in Hebrew
& Jewish Studies as an Erasmus student, please check if an Erasmus
agreement is in place with your institution.   We look forward to welcoming you at
UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies!
 You can contact the department at: jewish.studies [at] ucl.ac.uk
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
 

   How to Apply

 
Here is a selection of course options we offer!For more information please see a list of courses running in 2017-18 and detailed course descriptions.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				This unique degree offers training in an unparalleled range of ancient languages and their associated history, culture and textual traditions. Students study Hebrew and either Greek or Latin throughout the programme, plus up to three additional languages chosen from a wide selection including Akkadian, Aramaic, Egyptian, Sumerian, Syriac and Ugaritic.Our programme is unique in the UK. It combines concentrated study of Greco-Roman and Semitic philology, in addition to other ancient Indo-European and Afroasiatic languages, and provides students with an unparalleled insight into the key linguistic and textual traditions of the ancient world. Based within UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and UCL Greek & Latin, students will also have access to the teaching facilities and expertise available university-wide, including in archaeology, ancient history, and linguistics.Access to a remarkable collection of ancient language resources in the UCL and SOAS Libraries, as well as to the special collections in the British Library and British Museum.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and UCL Greek & Latin both have excellent global reputations. The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                            
                                            Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                                        In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In year one you will take modules in Biblical Hebrew, either Latin or Greek, and introductory historical linguistics. You will additionally be able to start studying a third and, if desired, fourth ancient language, drawn from an extensive selection (see the list given in the Degree Structure table). Ancient language modules include intensive study of texts spanning diverse literary genres including historical narrative, prose fiction, poetry, mythology, and religion. Alternatively, you can choose up to 1.5 credits from a wide range of disciplines including archaeology, history and linguistics.In year two you will continue your study of Biblical Hebrew and Greek or Latin. You will also begin or continue study of a third (and possibly fourth or fifth) ancient language. Again, you have the opportunity to choose a course from another discipline.In year three you will take advanced courses in Biblical Hebrew and Greek or Latin. You may also continue study of a third (and possibly fourth or fifth) ancient language, an option from another discipline, or a dissertation.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Introduction to Biblical HebrewIntroduction to the Study of LanguageGreek or Latin at the appropriate level
                                                                You will select 1.5 credits of optional modules, which may include a third and, if desired, fourth ancient language* and/or modules from other disciplines.* Ancient languages: Akkadian, Egyptian, Greek, Latin. (Additional languages, e.g. Hittite, Luwian, Sanskrit, etc. are available from other University of London colleges subject to faculty approval.)
                                                                Intermediate Biblical HebrewGreek or Latin at the appropriate levelA third language at the appropriate level
                                                                You will select 1.0 credit of optional modules.
                                                                Advanced Biblical Hebrew or UgariticGreek or Latin at the appropriate level
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits of optional modules; these may include an extended essay (0.5 credits) or final-year dissertation (1.0 credit).Teaching will be delivered by a combination of lectures, seminars and small-group tutorials. Students will be expected to undertake independent reading/study both to consolidate what is being taught and to broaden their individual knowledge and understanding of the subject.Assessment will be by a combination of unseen written examinations and assessed coursework in the form of language assignments, in-class tests and essays.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Ancient Languages BA. For information on syllabi and bibliographies: Search ReadingLists@UCL for the course code
or title.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 18 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, with D3 in an ancient or modern languageA,A,B at Advanced Highers (or AA at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher), including an ancient or modern language at Advanced Higher.Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAB, including an ancient or modern language at grade A, unless an ancient and a modern language are offered at GCSE with grade C or above.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.You will gain skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication and time-management, as well as the mental agility and versatility that comes with learning languages.Graduates from this degree programme will be well placed to pursue further study relating to the ancient world or linguistics, or careers in law, community work, the diplomatic service, education, museum and archival work, the media, and executive roles in the private or public sector.As the first cohort of students for this programme will not graduate until 2017, there is no career destination information currently available. Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and of your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to the degree progamme subject matter, such as courses attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and UCL Greek & Latin as well as a tour of the campus.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				The three-year full-time (six-year part-time) Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA aims to develop students' knowledge and understanding of all aspects of Jewish culture, including its languages, literature and history.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-levels at grades ABB. In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK, and is highly regarded worldwide.We teach a wide range of modules in Jewish history, politics and culture.As part of your degree you can study both ancient and modern languages, including Biblical, Rabbinic, and Modern Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, Ugaritic, and Yiddish.During your time in the department you will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as to the SOAS Library and the special collections in the British Library, Wiener Library and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                            
                                            Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                                        In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first year you will take compulsory modules in Modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew or Yiddish, an introductory module on academic Jewish Studies, and a range of optional history, literature, and culture modules, providing an overview of the subject which allows you to identify your own areas of specialist interest for later study.In your second year you will take a compulsory module in Modern Hebrew and choose from a wide range of optional modules encompassing a vast chronological and geographical span and also an array of disciplinary approaches, such as history, literature, philology, gender studies, and politics.In your final year you will take three optional modules and will write a dissertation on a subject of our choice.You can find out about part-time study options by contacting the Hebrew & Jewish Studies Department directly.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Introduction to Biblical Hebrew or Elementary YiddishModern Hebrew for BeginnersSources, Methods, and Skills in Jewish Studies 
                                                                You will select three of the following 0.5 credit optional modules (the selection varies each year):Introduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near EastSurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                                Lower Intermediate Modern Hebrew
                                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature and politics. Alternatively, 1.0 credit can be selected from another subject area by arrangement with the relevant department.
                                                                Final-year dissertation (1.0 credit)
                                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature; and politics.The department uses a variety of teaching methods; classes are mostly small and intimate, encouraging active participation by the students. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises. All other subjects are taught by lectures and seminars.Most modules are assessed by a combination of essays and an end-of-year written examination, in addition to other types of coursework such as presentations. Modern language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA.The programme develops a wide range of skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication, and time management, in addition to linguistic ability, which will be beneficial for a wide range of careers.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including law, teaching (primary and secondary), banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue postgraduate study, either continuing within Hebrew and Jewish studies or moving into different fields such as history, digital humanities, linguistics, religious studies, and others.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to Jewish studies, such as courses attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and to tour the campus.The department attracts students from a diversity of backgrounds and our degree programmes reflect a wide of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        Hebrew and Jewish Studies
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        Hebrew and Jewish Studies
                                    Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				This four-year programme combines the study of Jewish cultural history with the study of the land (and associated languages and cultures) where many Jewish communities had their homes. The third year is spent abroad, in Jerusalem and/or in a relevant central or east European country.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK and is highly regarded worldwide.The programme is taught by acknowledged specialists in the field, all of whom are actively engaged in research. This will enable you to keep up-to-date with the latest debates, issues and discoveries.UCL School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies (SSEES) is the largest national centre in the UK for the study of central, east and south-east Europe and Russia. The SSEES library contains over 400,000 books, journals and film resources.You will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish, and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as to the special collections of the British Library, the Wiener Library, and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                            
                                            Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                                        In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).Year one introduces you to the study of central and east European history and Jewish studies at the university level. In years two and four you can focus on topics of specific interest to you by choosing modules that examine particular periods and themes in east European and Jewish history. You can also study one or more relevant languages such as Hebrew, Yiddish, Russian, Polish, or Ukrainian. Your third year is spent abroad, at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and/or in a relevant central or east European country.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                History of Eastern Europe since 1856Modern HistoriographySeminars in HistorySurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                                You will select 1.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules, including:Elementary YiddishIntroduction to Biblical HebrewIntroduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Modern HebrewIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near East
                                                                All second year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules within the department of Hebrew & Jewish Studies. A further 2.0 credits will be selected from SSEES.
                                                                Year three involves studying a full-time programme at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and/or a central or east European university of your choice.
                                                                All final year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in Hebrew & Jewish Studies and a further 2.0 credits from SSEES, including the option of taking a final-year dissertation of 10,000 words for the value of 1.0 credit.History modules are taught through lectures and seminars. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises.Most modules are assessed by an end-of-year written examination, several essays and/or other types of coursework. Language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: History (Central and East European) and Jewish Studies BA. For information on syllabi and bibliographies: Search ReadingLists@UCL for the course code
or title.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. History required. ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). History required at Advanced Higher. Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades ABB. History required. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.Together with subject-specific knowledge, you will acquire discipline-based skills in historical research, methodology and analysis, in addition to transferable skills such as working as part of a team, analysing and solving problems, organising your time and resources, and structuring and communicating your ideas verbally and in writing.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue further study, either continuing within the field or training in law or teaching (primary and secondary).Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the history of central and eastern Europe, and your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to east European and Jewish studies, such as courses attended, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer for a place on a programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and the UCL School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies as well as tour the campus.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and SSEES both attract students from a diversity of backgrounds, and our degree programmes reflect a range of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				 Are you interested in Jews and Jewish history? The
situation in the Middle East? Hebrew and Jewish languages? Ancient Near Eastern
civilisations? Modern Jewish literature? Welcome to UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies.We are a small, very friendly, and extremely ambitious
department. We aim to teach every aspect of Jewish culture to every type of
student. Our range of courses in Jewish Studies is the widest anywhere in
Europe, and our students can sample the even wider selection of complementary
courses available at UCL and elsewhere in London. We encourage our students to
pursue their own interests and their own research.We offer a range of BA and MA degree programmes, some in
combination with other subjects. We welcome international students (JYAs), for
the full academic year or one of the academic terms. We teach mostly small
classes, and all students are given the personal attention they need. We share
our cutting-edge research with all our students, from undergraduates to
doctoral.The majority of our students are Jewish (of every
persuasion), but a substantial minority are not. Our students and staff make up
a colourful international mix, with people from Israel, the US, all countries
of Europe, Russia, and the Far East. Whatever your background, you will feel
welcome in the department from day one.UCL is located in the heart of Bloomsbury, London’s
university centre, within walking distance of some of the richest and most
exciting cultural resources the world over: the British Museum, the British
Library, Theatreland, Opera, Ballet, the West End, and much more. Students at
UCL have the unique opportunity of experiencing the full potential of UCL's
central London location. There is every reason to come and study Hebrew &
Jewish Studies at UCL.
                        Undergraduate prospectusThe three-year full-time (six-year part-time) Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA aims to develop students' knowledge and understanding of all aspects of Jewish culture, including its languages, literature and history.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-levels at grades ABB. In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK, and is highly regarded worldwide.We teach a wide range of modules in Jewish history, politics and culture.As part of your degree you can study both ancient and modern languages, including Biblical, Rabbinic, and Modern Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, Ugaritic, and Yiddish.During your time in the department you will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as to the SOAS Library and the special collections in the British Library, Wiener Library and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                
                                Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                            In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first year you will take compulsory modules in Modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew or Yiddish, an introductory module on academic Jewish Studies, and a range of optional history, literature, and culture modules, providing an overview of the subject which allows you to identify your own areas of specialist interest for later study.In your second year you will take a compulsory module in Modern Hebrew and choose from a wide range of optional modules encompassing a vast chronological and geographical span and also an array of disciplinary approaches, such as history, literature, philology, gender studies, and politics.In your final year you will take three optional modules and will write a dissertation on a subject of our choice.You can find out about part-time study options by contacting the Hebrew & Jewish Studies Department directly.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                Introduction to Biblical Hebrew or Elementary YiddishModern Hebrew for BeginnersSources, Methods, and Skills in Jewish Studies 
                                                You will select three of the following 0.5 credit optional modules (the selection varies each year):Introduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near EastSurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                Lower Intermediate Modern Hebrew
                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature and politics. Alternatively, 1.0 credit can be selected from another subject area by arrangement with the relevant department.
                                                Final-year dissertation (1.0 credit)
                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature; and politics.The department uses a variety of teaching methods; classes are mostly small and intimate, encouraging active participation by the students. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises. All other subjects are taught by lectures and seminars.Most modules are assessed by a combination of essays and an end-of-year written examination, in addition to other types of coursework such as presentations. Modern language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA.The programme develops a wide range of skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication, and time management, in addition to linguistic ability, which will be beneficial for a wide range of careers.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including law, teaching (primary and secondary), banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue postgraduate study, either continuing within Hebrew and Jewish studies or moving into different fields such as history, digital humanities, linguistics, religious studies, and others.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to Jewish studies, such as courses attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                Application deadline:
                                15 January 2018The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and to tour the campus.The department attracts students from a diversity of backgrounds and our degree programmes reflect a wide of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                    Page last modified on 21 September 2017 at 16:19 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                UCL attends various events in the UK and overseas to help you make an informed choice about pursuing further study.We guarantee all first-year students a residential place. Find the right  accommodation for you.Information provided by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE).Learn more about KISPage maintained by UCL Student Recruitment MarketingUndergraduate prospectusThat page does not exist. Please click here to return to the degrees page.Page maintained by UCL Student Recruitment MarketingUndergraduate prospectusThe three-year full-time (six-year part-time) Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA aims to develop students' knowledge and understanding of all aspects of Jewish culture, including its languages, literature and history.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-levels at grades ABB. In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK, and is highly regarded worldwide.We teach a wide range of modules in Jewish history, politics and culture.As part of your degree you can study both ancient and modern languages, including Biblical, Rabbinic, and Modern Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, Ugaritic, and Yiddish.During your time in the department you will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as to the SOAS Library and the special collections in the British Library, Wiener Library and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                
                                Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                            In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first year you will take compulsory modules in Modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew or Yiddish, an introductory module on academic Jewish Studies, and a range of optional history, literature, and culture modules, providing an overview of the subject which allows you to identify your own areas of specialist interest for later study.In your second year you will take a compulsory module in Modern Hebrew and choose from a wide range of optional modules encompassing a vast chronological and geographical span and also an array of disciplinary approaches, such as history, literature, philology, gender studies, and politics.In your final year you will take three optional modules and will write a dissertation on a subject of our choice.You can find out about part-time study options by contacting the Hebrew & Jewish Studies Department directly.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                Introduction to Biblical Hebrew or Elementary YiddishModern Hebrew for BeginnersSources, Methods, and Skills in Jewish Studies 
                                                You will select three of the following 0.5 credit optional modules (the selection varies each year):Introduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near EastSurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                Lower Intermediate Modern Hebrew
                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature and politics. Alternatively, 1.0 credit can be selected from another subject area by arrangement with the relevant department.
                                                Final-year dissertation (1.0 credit)
                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature; and politics.The department uses a variety of teaching methods; classes are mostly small and intimate, encouraging active participation by the students. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises. All other subjects are taught by lectures and seminars.Most modules are assessed by a combination of essays and an end-of-year written examination, in addition to other types of coursework such as presentations. Modern language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA.The programme develops a wide range of skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication, and time management, in addition to linguistic ability, which will be beneficial for a wide range of careers.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including law, teaching (primary and secondary), banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue postgraduate study, either continuing within Hebrew and Jewish studies or moving into different fields such as history, digital humanities, linguistics, religious studies, and others.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to Jewish studies, such as courses attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                Application deadline:
                                15 January 2018The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and to tour the campus.The department attracts students from a diversity of backgrounds and our degree programmes reflect a wide of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                    Page last modified on 21 September 2017 at 16:19 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                UCL attends various events in the UK and overseas to help you make an informed choice about pursuing further study.We guarantee all first-year students a residential place. Find the right  accommodation for you.Information provided by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE).Learn more about KISPage maintained by UCL Student Recruitment MarketingUndergraduate prospectusThe four-year full-time (eight-year part-time) Hebrew and Jewish Studies with Year Abroad BA aims to develop students' knowledge and understanding of all aspects of Jewish culture, including its languages, literature and history. Year three is spent at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects.ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher).Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades ABB.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK, and is highly regarded worldwide.We teach a wide range of modules in Jewish history, politics and culture.As part of your degree you can study both ancient and modern languages, including Biblical, Rabbinic, and Modern Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, Ugaritic, and Yiddish.During your time in the department you will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as the SOAS Library and the special collections in the British Library, Wiener Library and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                
                                Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                            In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first year you will take compulsory modules in Modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew or Yiddish, an introductory module in academic Jewish Studies, and a range of optional history, literature, and culture modules, providing an overview of the subject which allows you to identify your own areas of specialist interest for later study.In your second year you will take a compulsory module in Modern Hebrew and choose from a wide range of options encompassing a vast chronological and geographical span and also an array of disciplinary approaches, such as history, literature, philology, gender studies and politics.Your third year will be spent at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where you will be able to take modules drawn from an extremely diverse and extensive range of subjects.In your final year you will take three optional courses and will write a dissertation on a subject of our choice.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                Introduction to Biblical Hebrew or Elementary YiddishModern Hebrew for BeginnersSources, Methods, and Skills in Jewish Studies 
                                                You will select three of the following 0.5 credit options (the selection varies each year):Introduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near EastSurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                Lower Intermediate Modern Hebrew
                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of options in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature and politics. Alternatively, 1.0 credit can be selected from another subject area by arrangement with the relevant department.
                                                Year abroad at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
                                                Final-year dissertation (1.0 credit)
                                                3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature; and politics.The department uses a variety of teaching methods; classes are mostly small and intimate, encouraging active participation by the students. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises. All other subjects are taught by lectures and seminars.Most modules are assessed by a combination of essays and an end-of-year written examination, in addition to other types of coursework such as presentations. Modern language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Hebrew and Jewish Studies with Year Abroad BA.The programme develops a wide range of skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication, and time management, in addition to linguistic ability, which will be beneficial for a wide range of careers.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including law, teaching (primary and secondary), banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue postgraduate study, either continuing within Hebrew and Jewish studies or moving into different fields such as history, digital humanities, linguistics, religious studies, and others.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and of your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to Jewish Studies, such as modules attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                Application deadline:
                                15 January 2018The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and tour the campus.The department attracts students from a diversity of backgrounds and our degree programmes reflect a wide range of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                    Page last modified on 21 September 2017 at 16:19 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                UCL attends various events in the UK and overseas to help you make an informed choice about pursuing further study.We guarantee all first-year students a residential place. Find the right  accommodation for you.Information provided by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE).Learn more about KISPage maintained by UCL Student Recruitment MarketingUndergraduate prospectusThat page does not exist. Please click here to return to the degrees page.Page maintained by UCL Student Recruitment MarketingUndergraduate prospectusThe four-year full-time (eight-year part-time) Hebrew and Jewish Studies with Year Abroad BA aims to develop students' knowledge and understanding of all aspects of Jewish culture, including its languages, literature and history. Year three is spent at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects.ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher).Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades ABB.In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK, and is highly regarded worldwide.We teach a wide range of modules in Jewish history, politics and culture.As part of your degree you can study both ancient and modern languages, including Biblical, Rabbinic, and Modern Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, Ugaritic, and Yiddish.During your time in the department you will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as the SOAS Library and the special collections in the British Library, Wiener Library and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                
                                Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                            In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first year you will take compulsory modules in Modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew or Yiddish, an introductory module in academic Jewish Studies, and a range of optional history, literature, and culture modules, providing an overview of the subject which allows you to identify your own areas of specialist interest for later study.In your second year you will take a compulsory module in Modern Hebrew and choose from a wide range of options encompassing a vast chronological and geographical span and also an array of disciplinary approaches, such as history, literature, philology, gender studies and politics.Your third year will be spent at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where you will be able to take modules drawn from an extremely diverse and extensive range of subjects.In your final year you will take three optional courses and will write a dissertation on a subject of our choice.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                Introduction to Biblical Hebrew or Elementary YiddishModern Hebrew for BeginnersSources, Methods, and Skills in Jewish Studies 
                                                You will select three of the following 0.5 credit options (the selection varies each year):Introduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near EastSurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                Lower Intermediate Modern Hebrew
                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of options in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature and politics. Alternatively, 1.0 credit can be selected from another subject area by arrangement with the relevant department.
                                                Year abroad at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
                                                Final-year dissertation (1.0 credit)
                                                3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature; and politics.The department uses a variety of teaching methods; classes are mostly small and intimate, encouraging active participation by the students. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises. All other subjects are taught by lectures and seminars.Most modules are assessed by a combination of essays and an end-of-year written examination, in addition to other types of coursework such as presentations. Modern language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Hebrew and Jewish Studies with Year Abroad BA.The programme develops a wide range of skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication, and time management, in addition to linguistic ability, which will be beneficial for a wide range of careers.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including law, teaching (primary and secondary), banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue postgraduate study, either continuing within Hebrew and Jewish studies or moving into different fields such as history, digital humanities, linguistics, religious studies, and others.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.The fees indicated are for undergraduate entry in the 2017/18 academic year and are for the first year of the programme at UCL only. Fees for 2018 entry will appear here as soon as they are available.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and of your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to Jewish Studies, such as modules attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                Application deadline:
                                15 January 2018The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and tour the campus.The department attracts students from a diversity of backgrounds and our degree programmes reflect a wide range of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                    Page last modified on 21 September 2017 at 16:19 by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing.
                UCL attends various events in the UK and overseas to help you make an informed choice about pursuing further study.We guarantee all first-year students a residential place. Find the right  accommodation for you.Information provided by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE).Learn more about KISPage maintained by UCL Student Recruitment MarketingUndergraduate prospectusThe subjects covered in Hebrew and Jewish studies have remarkable current and international relevance. UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is unique in the UK, and offers expertise covering history, language and literature, religious, ethnic and political issues, and philology.Page maintained by UCL Student Recruitment Marketing
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				We offer a BA in Hebrew and Jewish Studies, an MA in Jewish
Studies, as well as a wide range of joint degrees with other 
departments in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, including a BA in 
Ancient Languages, BA in History (Central and East European) and Jewish 
Studies, and a range of degrees in Hebrew and modern languages.  Most of
 our programmes include a Year Abroad option, usually taken in Israel.Our
 programmes are well structured and offer a broad selection of modules 
that enable students to develop their interests and research potential. 
 The study of Hebrew is an essential component of our degree programmes,
 and many other languages, not least Yiddish, are also taught.Our
 academic staff are talented teachers and world leaders in their fields 
of research.  We welcome students of all ages, ethnicity and religion.  
We are a friendly and inspiring department, thriving on collaboration 
and a global, highly diverse staff and student body.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				  We send our twice-yearly
Departmental Newsletter to all Hebrew & Jewish Studies alumni, either by post or by email. If you
would like to contribute to an edition, please email your article, together
with your name and years of study, to jewish.studies@ucl.ac.uk.
   We also invite alumni to departmental events during the academic year.    If you would like to hear about events run by the Institute of Jewish Studies,
contact ijs@ucl.ac.uk to be added to their
emailing list. We want to
 make sure that our students have the best possible educational 
experience and are eager to maintain and enhance our reputation for 
research excellence.   We have expert staff delivering world-leading 
teaching and conducting cutting edge research, but they need to have the
 best resources available to them.   You can help to provide this by making a gift to your department. Your 
generosity will provide us with a source of income which can be used to 
respond to needs and opportunities as and when they arise. 
 From 
supporting student scholarships to investing in new facilities, 100% of 
your gift will be directed to areas of the greatest importance within 
the department.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				Our graduates have gone on to careers in
primary, secondary and higher education, the Bar, the City, the Civil
Service, NGO activity, electronic and print media, the clergy (Jewish and
non-Jewish), diplomacy, film-making, and much more.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				 For information on syllabi and bibliographies:  Search ReadingLists@UCL for the course code
or title. Please submit the following two forms together with payment (see details below): Payment is made by cheque only (made payable to UCL).The academic year is divided into three terms, with two reading weeks. Teaching takes place only in first and second term. College Reading Weeks are the weeks beginning Monday 6 November 2017, and Monday 12 February 2018. In accordance with departmental policy on Jewish holidays, no teaching will take place. Missed classes will be made up during Reading Week or as arranged by individual lecturers. Please consult your course lecturer.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies 
is located on the third floor of Foster Court. The Departmental Office 
is in room 318, third floor, Foster Court.  All classes are taught on the UCL campus (see UCL maps). Check the timetable for class locations. Note that these are subject to change at short notice due to circumstances beyond
 our control. The nearest tube stations are Goodge Street (Northern Line), 
Warren Street (Northern and Victoria Lines), Euston Square (Hammersmith 
& City, Circle and Metropolitan Lines), and Euston (Northern and 
Victoria Lines). There is a lift in Foster Court. 
However, other UCL buildings may be difficult for students with physical
 disabilities. Before making an applications, CE students are advised to
 contact the Departmental Office. This information will be treated in 
confidence and is only requested in order that UCL may offer advice on 
the facilities that are available for students with disabilities. To
 book a place, complete and return the application form and the UCL 
Visitor Registration Form. Your details will be added to the UCL system 
and you will be eligible for a UCL Visitor ID card. The standard fee is £650 per course
 unit (i.e. a course which ordinarily meets for two hours a week over 
two terms). The cost of a half course unit is £325. Should you wish to 
pay in two instalments, please indicate this on your application form. 
For this fee, CE students are entitled to sit in the class, receive all 
course materials and handouts.If you would like to sit the termly/end 
of year examinations and/or submit coursework/essays, please discuss 
this with the relevant lecturer at the first class. CE students can 
access the UCL library for reference use. (The fee does not include 
borrowing privileges.) CE students are also entitled to a computer 
account for the duration of the course. Once registered, CE students 
will be sent details of their account. 





  
 You will need to return the 
application form and visitor's form along with a cheque made payable to 
UCL to the Departmental office. Please note that credit card payments 
are not accepted. ConcessionsA reduced fee of £600 (both terms) and £300 (one term) is available to seniors (60+) or those with reduced circumstances (supporting documentation will be needed).  For further information, contact the HJS Departmental Office: Phone: 020 7679 7171Email: jewish.studies [at] ucl.ac.uk  The information above is accurate at the time of 
publication. However, UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies 
reserves the right to cancel or amend courses and refuse 
admission at any time.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
 

   How to Apply

 
Here is a selection of course options we offer! For more information please see a list of courses running in 2017-18 and detailed course descriptions.
 

   How to Apply

 

				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
 

   How to Apply

 
Here is a selection of course options we offer!
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				  The MPhil and PhD are research degrees for candidates with a suitable
academic background who wish to pursue independent research under the
supervision of a specialist in the field. 
 The department admits candidates only if there is a member of staff who
can provide the requisite supervision and assistance. In the first
instance, potential applicant should consult with the Graduate  
Tutor. PhD study is three years full-time or five years part-time. Candidates are expected to carry out an independent research
project, based in part on primary source material. MPhil candidates
ordinarily submit their qualifying work in the form of a thesis of
approximately 80,000 - 100,000 words in length.The PhD dissertation should be based substantially
on primary source material and must make a substantial and original
contribution to the candidate's area of study. We are a multi-disciplinary department with expertise across the 
whole field of Jewish studies, ranging from history (ancient to modern) 
and political science to language (all phases of Hebrew, several other 
Semitic languages and Yiddish), literature, and gender issues.
Research activities in the department include: A minimum of an upper second-class Bachelor’s degree in 
an arts or social science subject from a UK university or an overseas 
qualification of an equivalent standard, and a demonstrated knowledge of
 Hebrew or Yiddish, or another language appropriate to the research 
proposal. English level expected: Good  Applicants are accepted in the first instance for the MPhil degree
only. The Graduate  Tutor, in consultation with the
candidate's thesis Supervisor, will decide when and whether or not to
convert the registration to the PhD category.   Applicants should have an arts or social science degree with at least
upper second-class Honours from a UK university (or an equivalent overseas
qualification), and a demonstrated knowledge of Hebrew or Yiddish, or
another appropriate language.Candidates for research degree may begin
their programme at the beginning of either of the two teaching terms (i.e.
September/October or January). Prior to applying for a research degree,
candidates should consult with the Graduate  
Tutor, who will
advise them on the availability of research supervision within the
department. Three Wolfson Postgraduate Scholarships in the 
Humanities will be available for PhD students starting in 2014 in the 
area of literature, language and historyFor research students in their final year of study in the 
Department of Hebrew & Jewish Studies. This award is based on 
academic merit. There is no application procedure; all eligible students
 will be automatically considered by the Department of Hebrew & 
Jewish Studies.For students of the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa who 
wish to apply to UCL as an affiliate student for a graduate research 
programme in any Department of the Faculty of Arts & Humanities. 
Students must contact authorities of the Scuola Normale Superiore di 
Pisa in order to be nominated. This scholarship is based on academic 
merit.  This award was founded in 1989 to commemorate the work of 
Arnaldo Momigliano, KBE, FBA, Professor of Ancient History at UCL 
(1951-75) by his daughter, Professor Laura Lepschy.Full details of funding opportunities can be found on the UCL Scholarships website Our graduates find a wide range of career paths open 
to them and consequently can be found in most industries in the UK and 
overseas.The department has a strong culture of collaborative 
research and brings together researchers (whether staff or students) 
from across UCL as well as other institutions and organisations. Crucial
 to this are our research groups and centres, which provide a focus for 
our research activity, including doctoral students, post-docs and staff 
with specific research interests. Most doctoral students are attached to
 one (or more) of these groups and will be encouraged to get involved in
 the research seminars, visiting speakers, annual lectures, visits and 
other activities which these centres organise regularly. The centres 
also facilitate online interaction through blogs and Twitter feeds.In recent years, several students who have graduated from our research 
programmes have embarked on careers in academia. Others have taken jobs 
in journalism, for the United Nations, with non-governmental 
organisations, international think-tanks in Brussels and London, and in 
the diplomatic service.  Under exceptional circumstances, members of the UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies can direct the research projects (towards either
the MPhil or PhD programmes) of students who are not resident in the United
Kingdom. This is called the
"Non-Resident Programme" (NRP).   To enroll in the NRP, candidates must satisfy a number of
criteria:
Prospective candidates should ensure that they meet all of the above
qualifications for this degree, because no exceptions can be made to the
regulations.If they wish to
explore the possibility of NRP status, they should contact the Graduate Tutor at jewish.studies@ucl.ac.uk using the Subject Line: "Graduate
Tutor - NRP" The Graduate Tutor will decide if the applicant meets the
requirements and will put them in touch with a prospective
supervisor. 
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				  We are a small, friendly and extremely
ambitious department at UCL teaching every aspect of Jewish culture to every
type of student. The department of Hebrew & Jewish Studies goes back to the very
foundations of UCL, as Sir Isaac Lyon Goldsmid (1778-1859), one of the
leading figures in the struggle for Jewish emancipation in England, was among
the principal founders of UCL and the chief promoter of its Hebrew department.   Today, the department’s range of
Jewish Studies courses is the widest anywhere in Europe. With offerings in
language and literature, history, politics, religious and gender studies, it is
no surprise that many students (even those who are registered in another
department) choose to take a class with us.
Our strongest appeal is the chance
for study abroad students to work in an intimate setting with leading scholars
in diverse areas of the field.  If you are looking to enrol in Hebrew
& Jewish Studies as an Erasmus student, please check if an Erasmus
agreement is in place with your institution.   We look forward to welcoming you at
UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies!
 You can contact the department at: jewish.studies [at] ucl.ac.uk
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				
 

   How to Apply

 
Here is a selection of course options we offer!For more information please see a list of courses running in 2017-18 and detailed course descriptions.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				This unique degree offers training in an unparalleled range of ancient languages and their associated history, culture and textual traditions. Students study Hebrew and either Greek or Latin throughout the programme, plus up to three additional languages chosen from a wide selection including Akkadian, Aramaic, Egyptian, Sumerian, Syriac and Ugaritic.Our programme is unique in the UK. It combines concentrated study of Greco-Roman and Semitic philology, in addition to other ancient Indo-European and Afroasiatic languages, and provides students with an unparalleled insight into the key linguistic and textual traditions of the ancient world. Based within UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and UCL Greek & Latin, students will also have access to the teaching facilities and expertise available university-wide, including in archaeology, ancient history, and linguistics.Access to a remarkable collection of ancient language resources in the UCL and SOAS Libraries, as well as to the special collections in the British Library and British Museum.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and UCL Greek & Latin both have excellent global reputations. The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                            
                                            Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                                        In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In year one you will take modules in Biblical Hebrew, either Latin or Greek, and introductory historical linguistics. You will additionally be able to start studying a third and, if desired, fourth ancient language, drawn from an extensive selection (see the list given in the Degree Structure table). Ancient language modules include intensive study of texts spanning diverse literary genres including historical narrative, prose fiction, poetry, mythology, and religion. Alternatively, you can choose up to 1.5 credits from a wide range of disciplines including archaeology, history and linguistics.In year two you will continue your study of Biblical Hebrew and Greek or Latin. You will also begin or continue study of a third (and possibly fourth or fifth) ancient language. Again, you have the opportunity to choose a course from another discipline.In year three you will take advanced courses in Biblical Hebrew and Greek or Latin. You may also continue study of a third (and possibly fourth or fifth) ancient language, an option from another discipline, or a dissertation.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Introduction to Biblical HebrewIntroduction to the Study of LanguageGreek or Latin at the appropriate level
                                                                You will select 1.5 credits of optional modules, which may include a third and, if desired, fourth ancient language* and/or modules from other disciplines.* Ancient languages: Akkadian, Egyptian, Greek, Latin. (Additional languages, e.g. Hittite, Luwian, Sanskrit, etc. are available from other University of London colleges subject to faculty approval.)
                                                                Intermediate Biblical HebrewGreek or Latin at the appropriate levelA third language at the appropriate level
                                                                You will select 1.0 credit of optional modules.
                                                                Advanced Biblical Hebrew or UgariticGreek or Latin at the appropriate level
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits of optional modules; these may include an extended essay (0.5 credits) or final-year dissertation (1.0 credit).Teaching will be delivered by a combination of lectures, seminars and small-group tutorials. Students will be expected to undertake independent reading/study both to consolidate what is being taught and to broaden their individual knowledge and understanding of the subject.Assessment will be by a combination of unseen written examinations and assessed coursework in the form of language assignments, in-class tests and essays.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Ancient Languages BA. For information on syllabi and bibliographies: Search ReadingLists@UCL for the course code
or title.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 18 credits awarded with Distinction in the Level 3 units, the remainder of the Level 3 units awarded with Merit.D3,D3,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects, with D3 in an ancient or modern languageA,A,B at Advanced Highers (or AA at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher), including an ancient or modern language at Advanced Higher.Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades AAB, including an ancient or modern language at grade A, unless an ancient and a modern language are offered at GCSE with grade C or above.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.You will gain skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication and time-management, as well as the mental agility and versatility that comes with learning languages.Graduates from this degree programme will be well placed to pursue further study relating to the ancient world or linguistics, or careers in law, community work, the diplomatic service, education, museum and archival work, the media, and executive roles in the private or public sector.As the first cohort of students for this programme will not graduate until 2017, there is no career destination information currently available. Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and of your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to the degree progamme subject matter, such as courses attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and UCL Greek & Latin as well as a tour of the campus.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				The three-year full-time (six-year part-time) Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA aims to develop students' knowledge and understanding of all aspects of Jewish culture, including its languages, literature and history.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-levels at grades ABB. In addition to A level and International Baccalaureate, UCL considers a wide range of international qualifications for entry to its undergraduate degree programmes.The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK, and is highly regarded worldwide.We teach a wide range of modules in Jewish history, politics and culture.As part of your degree you can study both ancient and modern languages, including Biblical, Rabbinic, and Modern Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, Ugaritic, and Yiddish.During your time in the department you will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as to the SOAS Library and the special collections in the British Library, Wiener Library and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                            
                                            Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                                        In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).In your first year you will take compulsory modules in Modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew or Yiddish, an introductory module on academic Jewish Studies, and a range of optional history, literature, and culture modules, providing an overview of the subject which allows you to identify your own areas of specialist interest for later study.In your second year you will take a compulsory module in Modern Hebrew and choose from a wide range of optional modules encompassing a vast chronological and geographical span and also an array of disciplinary approaches, such as history, literature, philology, gender studies, and politics.In your final year you will take three optional modules and will write a dissertation on a subject of our choice.You can find out about part-time study options by contacting the Hebrew & Jewish Studies Department directly.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                Introduction to Biblical Hebrew or Elementary YiddishModern Hebrew for BeginnersSources, Methods, and Skills in Jewish Studies 
                                                                You will select three of the following 0.5 credit optional modules (the selection varies each year):Introduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near EastSurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                                Lower Intermediate Modern Hebrew
                                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature and politics. Alternatively, 1.0 credit can be selected from another subject area by arrangement with the relevant department.
                                                                Final-year dissertation (1.0 credit)
                                                                You will select 3.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in the following areas: Hebrew, Yiddish and other Jewish languages; Jewish history and culture; literature; and politics.The department uses a variety of teaching methods; classes are mostly small and intimate, encouraging active participation by the students. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises. All other subjects are taught by lectures and seminars.Most modules are assessed by a combination of essays and an end-of-year written examination, in addition to other types of coursework such as presentations. Modern language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: Hebrew and Jewish Studies BA.The programme develops a wide range of skills such as critical thinking, oral and written communication, and time management, in addition to linguistic ability, which will be beneficial for a wide range of careers.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including law, teaching (primary and secondary), banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue postgraduate study, either continuing within Hebrew and Jewish studies or moving into different fields such as history, digital humanities, linguistics, religious studies, and others.Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the subject, and your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to Jewish studies, such as courses attended, museums visited, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer of a place on the programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and to tour the campus.The department attracts students from a diversity of backgrounds and our degree programmes reflect a wide of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.
                                        Hebrew and Jewish Studies
                                    
                                        Faculty of Arts & Humanities
                                    
                                        Hebrew and Jewish Studies
                                    Sorry, this Silva Document is not viewable.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				This four-year programme combines the study of Jewish cultural history with the study of the land (and associated languages and cultures) where many Jewish communities had their homes. The third year is spent abroad, in Jerusalem and/or in a relevant central or east European country.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies is the only department of its kind in the UK and is highly regarded worldwide.The programme is taught by acknowledged specialists in the field, all of whom are actively engaged in research. This will enable you to keep up-to-date with the latest debates, issues and discoveries.UCL School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies (SSEES) is the largest national centre in the UK for the study of central, east and south-east Europe and Russia. The SSEES library contains over 400,000 books, journals and film resources.You will have access to a remarkable collection of Hebrew, Yiddish, and Judaica books in the UCL Library, as well as to the special collections of the British Library, the Wiener Library, and the National Archives.The Research Excellence Framework, or REF, is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions. The 2014 REF was carried out by the UK's higher education funding bodies, and the results used to allocate research funding from 2015/16.The following REF score was awarded to the department: Hebrew and Jewish Studies.Learn more about the scope of UCL's research, and browse case studies, on our Research Impact website.A short video with more information.
                                            
                                            Subscribe to the StudyUCL YouTube channel to learn more about life and studying at UCL.
                                        In each year of your degree you will take a number of individual modules, normally valued at 0.5 or 1.0 credits, adding up to a total of 4.0 credits for the year. Modules are assessed in the academic year in which they are taken. The balance of compulsory and optional modules varies from programme to programme and year to year. A 1.0 credit is considered equivalent to 15 credits in the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).Year one introduces you to the study of central and east European history and Jewish studies at the university level. In years two and four you can focus on topics of specific interest to you by choosing modules that examine particular periods and themes in east European and Jewish history. You can also study one or more relevant languages such as Hebrew, Yiddish, Russian, Polish, or Ukrainian. Your third year is spent abroad, at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and/or in a relevant central or east European country.An indicative guide to the structure of this programme, year by year.
                                                                History of Eastern Europe since 1856Modern HistoriographySeminars in HistorySurvey of Jewish History 2: From Medieval to Early Modern EuropeSurvey of Jewish History 3: The Modern World
                                                                You will select 1.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules, including:Elementary YiddishIntroduction to Biblical HebrewIntroduction to Biblical and Rabbinic LiteratureIntroduction to Hebrew Literature: Medieval to ModernIntroduction to Israeli Culture, Society and PoliticsIntroduction to Jewish LanguagesIntroduction to Jewish Philosophy and MysticismIntroduction to Modern HebrewIntroduction to Modern Jewish LiteratureIntroduction to the Study of JudaismSurvey of Jewish History 1: The Ancient and Medieval Near East
                                                                All second year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules within the department of Hebrew & Jewish Studies. A further 2.0 credits will be selected from SSEES.
                                                                Year three involves studying a full-time programme at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and/or a central or east European university of your choice.
                                                                All final year modules are optional.
                                                                You will select 2.0 credits from a wide range of optional modules in Hebrew & Jewish Studies and a further 2.0 credits from SSEES, including the option of taking a final-year dissertation of 10,000 words for the value of 1.0 credit.History modules are taught through lectures and seminars. Modern language study includes oral work, reading comprehension, listening comprehension and translation exercises.Most modules are assessed by an end-of-year written examination, several essays and/or other types of coursework. Language modules are also assessed by oral examinations.Detailed course descriptions are available on the department website: History (Central and East European) and Jewish Studies BA. For information on syllabi and bibliographies: Search ReadingLists@UCL for the course code
or title.For entry requirements with other UK qualifications accepted by UCL, choose your qualification from the list below:Not acceptable for entrance to this programmePass in Access to HE Diploma, with a minimum of 28 credits awarded with Merit in the Level 3 units.D3,M1,M1 in three Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subjects. History required. ABB at Advanced Highers (or AB at Advanced Higher and BBB at Higher). History required at Advanced Higher. Successful completion of the WBQ Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate plus 2 GCE A-Levels at grades ABB. History required. The Undergraduate Preparatory Certificates (UPCs) are intensive one-year foundation courses for international students of high academic potential who are aiming to gain access to undergraduate degree programmes at UCL and other top UK universities.Typical UPC students will be high achievers in a 12-year school system which does not meet the standard required for direct entry to UCL.For more information see: www.ucl.ac.uk/upc.If your education has not been conducted in the English language, you will be expected to demonstrate evidence of an adequate level of English proficiency. Information about the evidence required, acceptable qualifications and test providers can be found on our English language requirements page.The English language level for this programme is: AdvancedA variety of English language programmes are offered at the UCL Centre for Languages & International Education.Together with subject-specific knowledge, you will acquire discipline-based skills in historical research, methodology and analysis, in addition to transferable skills such as working as part of a team, analysing and solving problems, organising your time and resources, and structuring and communicating your ideas verbally and in writing.Our graduates take up employment in diverse fields including banking and finance, journalism, publishing, the museum sector, and librarianship. Many choose to pursue further study, either continuing within the field or training in law or teaching (primary and secondary).Please see first destinations of recent graduates (2013-2015) from Greek & Latin programmes at UCL for a selection of representative careers.Data taken from the 'Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education' survey undertaken by HESA looking at the destinations of UK and EU students in the 2013-2015 graduating cohorts six months after graduation.UCL is commited to helping you get the best start after graduation. Read more about how UCL Careers and UCL Innovation and Enterprise can help you find employment or learn about entrepreneurship.In your application we will be particularly interested in your motivation to study the history of central and eastern Europe, and your interest in broad matters of language, literature and culture. We will also be interested to learn of experiences you may have had relating to east European and Jewish studies, such as courses attended, travel, and wider reading.Application for admission should be made through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service). Applicants currently at school or college will be provided with advice on the process; however, applicants who have left school or who are based outside the United Kingdom may obtain information directly from UCAS.
                                        Application deadline:
                                        15 January 2018                    
                                    The selection process is conducted on the basis of your UCAS application and personal statement. If you receive an offer for a place on a programme, you will be invited to visit UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and the UCL School of Slavonic & Eastern European Studies as well as tour the campus.UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies and SSEES both attract students from a diversity of backgrounds, and our degree programmes reflect a range of cultures, ethnicities and religions. Consequently, we do not require you to have any prior knowledge of Hebrew, nor are you expected to have a Jewish background.For further information on UCL's selection process see: Selection of students.The UK/EU fee quoted above may be subject to increase for the 2018/19 academic year and for each year of study thereafter and UCL reserves the right to increase its fees in line with UK government policy (including on an annual basis for each year of study during a programme). Fees for overseas students may be subject to an annual increase in subsequent years of study by up to 5%.Please see the full details of UCL's fees and possible changes on the UCL Current Students website.Various funding options are available, including student loans, scholarships and bursaries. UK students whose household income falls below a certain level may also be eligible for a non-repayable bursary or for certain scholarships. Please see the Fees and funding pages for more details.The Scholarships and Funding website lists scholarships and funding schemes available to UCL students. These may be open to all students, or restricted to specific nationalities, regions or academic department.
				    Hebrew & Jewish Studies
				    
				 Are you interested in Jews and Jewish history? The
situation in the Middle East? Hebrew and Jewish languages? Ancient Near Eastern
civilisations? Modern Jewish literature? Welcome to UCL Hebrew & Jewish Studies.We are a small, very friendly, and extremely ambitious
department. We aim to teach every aspect of Jewish culture to every type of
student. Our range of courses in Jewish Studies is the widest anywhere in
Europe, and our students can sample the even wider selection of complementary
courses available at UCL and elsewhere in London. We encourage our students to
pursue their own interests and their own research.We offer a range of BA and MA degree programmes, some in
combination with other subjects. We welcome international students (JYAs), for
the full academic year or one of the academic terms. We teach mostly small
classes, and all students are given the personal attention they need. We share
our cutting-edge research with all our students, from undergraduates to
doctoral.The majority of our students are Jewish (of every
persuasion), but a substantial minority are not. Our students and staff make up
a colourful international mix, with people from Israel, the US, all countries
of Europe, Russia, and the Far East. Whatever your background, you will feel
welcome in the department from day one.UCL is located in the heart of Bloomsbury, London’s
university centre, within walking distance of some of the richest and most
exciting cultural resources the world over: the British Museum, the British
Library, Theatreland, Opera, Ballet, the West End, and much more. Students at
UCL have the unique opportunity of experiencing the full potential of UCL's
central London location. There is every reason to come and study Hebrew &
Jewish Studies at UCL.