CELL equips its postgraduate students with the skills necessary to conduct and transmit their archival research. CELL oﬀers a range of modules in paleography, critical bibliography and information technology alongside courses based on our research. CELL staﬀ are also the core course convenors of the MA in Early Modern Studies   Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014The MA in Early Modern Studies is a unique, multidisciplinary course which oﬀers an innovative blend of skills training, object-based learning and museum visits.

The MA is 1 year full-time or 2 years part-time, and currently has 3 compulsory modules:Students can then select 2-4 optional modules, based on their academic interests.CELL oﬀers a range of optional modules, though not all are available every year:Other modules are available from other departments and MA programmes within UCL.For more information on the degree, including entry requirements and how to apply see the online prospectus. Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014This module oﬀers intellectual infrastructure, practical training and skills in the writing of biography. It includes a discussion of biographical techniques and features practical exercises.Students will explore how biography has developed as a genre, how myths are formed and conceptions of identity have changed over time, and the various forms of biographical writing. Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014This module analyses and compared aspects of various confessional cultures that emerged in England and the Dutch Republic, two countries which became oﬃcially Protestant and which enjoyed economic, cultural, and religious ties.The course will chieﬂy focus on the mainstream Protestant and Catholic religious cultures and particular aspects of these cultures will be studied from a comparative and cross- confessional perspective. Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014This module will provide an introduction to the grammar and vocabulary of Latin as it was used in the post-classical era, as a starting point for reading texts and documents from that period.Students will come away from this module with a basic understanding of how the language works and some of the changes it underwent during the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. They will acquire a grasp of the fundamentals of Latin grammar, and a broad grounding in vocabulary, both general and the specialised language frequently encountered in historical source materials. Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014This module teaches students how to analyse early modern epistolary conventions so as to be able to identify the extensive array of formal components required. This work is based on original archival materials and printed editions.It instructs them in the close reading of early modern letters so as to extract elements relevant to narrative history and biography. Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014The Director’s Seminar provides a weekly opportunity for the CELL community to come together and share their work in a productive, supportive and convivial atmosphere. As well as welcoming a dynamic group of visiting speakers from pan-disciplinary ﬁelds, we aim to discuss topics of all kinds related to the theory and practice of graduate life. Our goal is to provide graduate students with an additional set of skills to enhance those provided in the graduate skills training sessions. All interested postgraduate students are welcome – whether you’re from CELL, UCL, or any other university. Please contact Matthew Symonds if you’d like to join in!The Director’s Seminar is not running in 2015-16.The schedule for the second term 2014-15 featured group sessions on theoretical and practical issues facing humanities researchers, as well as papers on exciting new research. Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014The Director’s Seminar (Thursdays, 10.30-12, Room 111 Foster Court) is a weekly gathering of graduate students and staﬀ, led by Professor Lisa Jardine. As well as welcoming a dynamic group of visiting speakers from pan-disciplinary ﬁelds, we aim to discuss topics of all kinds related to the theory and practice of graduate life. Our goal is to provide graduate students with an additional set of skills to enhance those provided in the graduate skills training sessions. Please click ‘read more’ to see the sessions for autumn term 2013. All interested postgraduate students are welcome - whether you’re from CELL, UCL, or any other university. Please contact either Robyn Adams or Matthew Symonds if you’d like to join in! Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014The Director’s Seminar (Thursdays, 10.30-12, Room 111 Foster Court) is a weekly gathering of graduate students and staﬀ, led by Professor Lisa Jardine. As well as welcoming a dynamic group of visiting speakers from pan-disciplinary ﬁelds, we aim to discuss topics of all kinds related to the theory and practice of graduate life. Our goal is to provide graduate students with an additional set of skills to enhance those provided in the graduate skills training sessions. Please click ‘read more’ to see the sessions for autumn term 2013. All interested postgraduate students are welcome - whether you’re from CELL, UCL, or any other university. Please contact either Robyn Adams or Matthew Symonds if you’d like to join in! Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014The Director’s Seminar (Thursdays, 10.30-12, Room 111 Foster Court) is a weekly gathering of graduate students and staﬀ, led by Professor Lisa Jardine. As well as welcoming a dynamic group of visiting speakers from pan-disciplinary ﬁelds, we aim to discuss topics of all kinds related to the theory and practice of graduate life. Our goal is to provide graduate students with an additional set of skills to enhance those provided in the graduate skills training sessions. Please click ‘read more’ to see the sessions for autumn term 2014. All interested postgraduate students are welcome - whether you’re from CELL, UCL, or any other university. Please contact Matthew Symonds if you’d like to join in! Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014The Director’s Seminar (Thursdays, 10.30-12, Room 111 Foster Court) is a weekly gathering of graduate students and staﬀ, led by Professor Lisa Jardine. As well as welcoming a dynamic group of visiting speakers from pan-disciplinary ﬁelds, we aim to discuss topics of all kinds related to the theory and practice of graduate life. Our goal is to provide graduate students with an additional set of skills to enhance those provided in the graduate skills training sessions. Please click ‘read more’ to see the sessions for autumn term 2014. All interested postgraduate students are welcome - whether you’re from CELL, UCL, or any other university. Please contact Matthew Symonds if you’d like to join in! 15 January: Planning session 22 January: To be conﬁrmed 29 January: Cassie Gorman: ‘Reading Between The Lines: John Dee’s Conversations With Angels’This is a paper about a mysterious collection of lines on a sixteenth-century manuscript. Strange linear marks pervade the pages of John Dee’s Mysteriorum Libri, his account of the many alleged conversations with angels that took place between him, his ‘scryer’ Edward Kelley and a colourful cast of visiting spirits. The sensational anecdotes surrounding the text have tended to obscure its positive values: its ﬁne detail, an attempt to deliver a full report of the manner and location of the conversations, provides a rare (albeit one-sided) insight into the practical circumstances of an occult art. I suggest in this paper that Dee’s unusual linear marks are not merely punctuative, but serve to recreate the spatial and temporal conditions of the conversations they record. I also consider what these marks – and their imperfect reproduction in Méric Casaubon’s edition A True and Faithful Relation – reveal of the contribution of Euclidean mathematics to Dee’s occult practices. 5th February: Jennifer Bishop: “Livery company clerks in early modern London” 12 February: Erin Webster: ‘The “optics” of virtue in Aphra Behn’s The Emperor of the Moon’The subject of this talk is the “optics” of virtuous viewing in Aphra Behn’s understudied play, The Emperor of the Moon (1687), and their relation to the play’s satire of the experimental practices of the early Royal Society. In Behn’s play, the self-styled “virtuous” virtuoso Dr. Baliardo makes use of telescopes and microscopes to voyeuristically peep into private, domestic spaces, while simultaneously demanding that his female charges be “kept from the sight of man” so as to preserve their virtue. While the Royal Society has been identiﬁed as a target of Behn’s satirical portrait of the doctor, the gender politics underlying this treatment have yet to be explored. Drawing on Robert Boyle’s Christian Virtuoso, Robert Hooke’s Micrographia and Thomas Sprat’s History of the Royal Society, I argue that Behn’s depiction of Dr. Baliardo is a pointed critique of the sexually-charged rhetoric of experimentalists like Boyle and Hooke, who posit their own virtuous, experimentalist eye as a means of containing and controlling a wanton, feminized, and sexualized “Nature.”19 February: Reading week 26 February: Lucy Judd, ‘Early Modern Receipt Books’In recent years, scholars have begun to reassess the value of receipt book manuscripts. Previously, they had been largely dismissed by historians as a literary genre of women’s life-writing, or at best, viewed as a useful footnote to evidence common domestic practices within the early modern household. Sara Pennell, Michelle DiMeo, Elaine Leong, Linda Pollock and Jayne Archer have begun to highlight the more universal value of these manuscripts, and to alleviate some of the ‘academic scepticism’ associated with their study, particularly with reference to writing women’s history. Receipt book manuscripts have, under closer examination, been shown to provide a fascinating insight into both the cultural and intellectual pursuits of women in the early modern period as a whole, and as a result of these works, a signiﬁcant amount has begun to be understood in regards to the sphere of domestic knowledge at this time.This paper will seek to explore recipe-writing and recipe-sharing networks through the lens of three local receipt book collections associated with the Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire regions.  Firstly, we will reﬂect upon the varied styles and formats of receipt book compilations, as a way of understanding how and why these manuscripts were compiled and used. Secondly, we will begin to explore the knowledge-sharing networks of these local gentry-women, and to question the extent to which perceived contemporary gender boundaries remained prevalent in the sphere of early modern domestic knowledge-sharing. Finally, we will begin to highlight the broad spectrum of individuals involved in receipt donation, spanning social superiors to household servants. 5 March: Liesbeth Corens, ‘Creating Counter-Archives: English Catholic record collecting in the late seventeenth century’ 12 March: Preparation for RSA: Hannah Crawforth; Brooke Palmieri. 19 March: Preparation for RSA: Sarah Case; Lotte Fikkers; John Gallagher. 26 March: Berlin 2015 - Renaissance Society of America Log in  © CELL 2003 – 2014